## Cushions

What other home accessory has the elegant utility of the cushion? Simple and affordable, cushions bestow comfort and style, and can transform the ambiance of a room in seconds.

They’re versatile, too.

Indoors on beds, armchairs, sofas and chaise lounges, cushions offer support, repose, and a rich sense of style.

Outdoors on sun-loungers and deck-chairs, they bring colour and comfort for relaxing on warm summer days.

Cushions also provide a fast and easy way to makeover a room.

With a little bit of creative flair, an arrangement of a throw and scatter cushions on a bed or sofa will help homeowners quickly redefine and rejuvenate tired spaces.

URBANARA’s collection of stylish cushions comes in a range of enticing colours, patterns and all-natural fabrics.

Complemented with inserts made from duck and goose feathers or a polyester, they’re firm enough to support and soft enough to delight.

## Cushions - how to arrange them on a sofa

Few sights conjure up a more inviting picture of comfort than that of a huddle of snuggly colourful cushions on a sofa.

Options are limitless and arranging them is a fun and creative act in itself.

For a traditional look, an even numbers of cushion with the most outer styles matching, works best.

For this interior style, deep or neutral colours and plain patterns are preferred.

Textures and weaves can help add interest.

For a contemporary effect, odd numbers of sofa cushions featuring abstract or geometric motifs and bright colours often do the trick.

As a rule, the larger the cushion, the more restrained its colour should be.

That way, smaller sofa cushions can be positioned for bold splashes of colour.

Whatever the desired style, it’s important not to overload the sofa.

A general rule of thumb is that a three seater should have no more than five cushions; an armchair, however, should simply have one.

Matching cushions with other elements in your décor
---------------------------------------------------

When shopping for cushions for the home, it’s vital to consider existing décor and home accessories.

To establish balance, it’s a good idea to match hues and patterns already present in items such as curtains, vases or furnishings.

URBANARA offers a choice of floral, striped and herringbone motifs for a more traditional look and abstract motifs for modern decors.

Many of our cushions can be paired with matching blankets & throws and bedspreads & quilts to ensure harmony in the bedroom.

As a rule, three colours should be the maximum… and they should complement each other for a balanced look.

Aim to pick up colours that are in the existing décor.

Large cushions vs small cushions
--------------------------------

Cushions come in a variety of sizes, which makes it easy to buy just the right items for any setting.

Popular sizes for smaller cushions are 45x45, and 50x50cm.

Preferred large sizes include 80x80 cm or the lumbar pillow, which is 80x40cm (these are great for the bed!) To change up the shape and add visual interest, rectangular cushions work well – they are most readily available in 40x60 cm.

Beds and sofas benefit from a mix of large and small cushions which can then function as building blocks to be creatively combined.

Cushions – which items of furniture can you use them with
---------------------------------------------------------

Cushions can be used on all kinds of furniture both inside and outside the home.

### Scatter cushions for sofas

Scatter cushions help make the sofa the centre of home relaxation it deserves to be.

Also, they can complement existing decor or sofa fabrics or add a stylish contrast as required.

On dull winter days, yellow cushions can add a touch of summery brightness, for example.

On the other hand, matching cushions to curtains helps create a harmonic look.

### Outdoor throw pillows

Whether on a recliner, sun-bed, deckchair or hammock swinging gently in a breeze, outdoor throw pillows can help make your garden, terrace or poolside into a stylish relaxation zone.

Linen cushions and cotton scatter pillows are a great choice for the outdoors because they’re particularly hardy, and can be placed in the washing machine.

### Cushions and pillows on the bed

Decorative throw pillows can create a lovely bedroom environment and also function as extra support when sitting up in bed.

The biggest pillows should be at the back and the smallest to the front to ensure maximum highlighting.

For a modern look, bedrooms benefit by drawing from a simple palette of greys and whites with an artfully placed colourful cushion as an accent.

Cushions from URBANARA – which materials do they come in?
---------------------------------------------------------

We pride ourselves on using purely natural materials, so our cushions are fashioned from velvet, silk, wool, cotton and various blends thereof.

Natural materials in the home promote a safe and healthy environment, but also require less chemicals to produce, and offer a lower environmental footprint, so you can feel good about having them in your home.

In addition, natural fibres come with a host of other benefits.

Wool, for example, naturally absorbs odours from the air, and is particularly dirt-resistant (this also makes wool rugs and throws particularly hard-wearing accessories for the home).

Linen is a good choice for allergy sufferers because it’s anti-static, meaning it won’t attract dust, and is naturally resistant to mites.

Synthetic fibres on the other hand are the opposite – so there’s more than one good reason to choose natural materials, even for the smallest and most unassuming of home accessories.

### Velvet cushion covers

Velvet is synonymous with smooth; this incomparably rich, plush and soft fabric brings an unique sense of luxury to cushion covers.

With its deep pile, it’s pleasantly warm to the touch making it ideal for use in winter.

### Silk scatter cushions

The epitome of luxury, silk scatter cushions can enhance a bedroom or living room like no other fabric.

But like all good things, moderation works best.

One option is to include one or two silk scatter cushions among other types to create a varied texture.

### Linen cushion covers

Fashioned from threads derived from the flax plant, linen is a soft and breathable fabric that’s also durable and delightfully cool to the touch.

This makes ideal for use in summer on recliners.

We also offer cushion covers crafted from a blend of linen, and linen items featuring a cotton reverse.

### Cushions made from wool

Wool brings a warm and fluffy feel to any setting.

Especially prized is 100% cashmere.

Softer and smoother than regular wool, cashmere is also more insulating.

Blends of wool and silk are especially attractive, combining the lustre of silk with the warmth of wool.

### Other throw pillow materials

The URBANARA cushion collection also includes cushions fashioned from cotton both pure and in various blends.

Another fabric we value is mohair.

Known as the "diamond fibre" for its lustre, mohair’s insulating properties render it warm in the winter and cool in the summer.

One enticing option is a mohair-wool blend that fuses the resilient sheen of mohair with the snug softness of wool.

Cushions from URBANARA – what colours do they come in?
------------------------------------------------------

Our cushion line features items in a wide range of colours and hues to suit every mood, decor and setting.

Along with regular reds, blues and blacks, these range from subtle shades of grey, blue, teal, coral, white and ochre to vibrant pink, terracotta and mustard yellow hues that burst with the colours of summer.

Peerless cushion shopping with URBANARA
---------------------------------------

Shopping online with URBANARA allows access to a distinctive range of cushions that aren’t seen in High Street outlets.

The last word in luxury and style, these are cushions that UK homeowners have come to love.

As part of our commitment to providing outstanding service and value, we also offer free UK delivery on all orders of over £50.

Plus, to ensure our customers enjoy total stress free shopping, we offer 100-day free returns on all purchases.

Recognising the individuality of our discerning customers, we also offer a customisation service.

Shoppers looking for cushions with their own logos or monograms can simply contact us via our customer service agents for assistance.
