## Picnic Blankets

## A perfect picnic blanket for stylish summer fun

Ah, the pleasures of picnics. Nothing evokes the spirit of British summers quite like convivial days spent feasting on a picnic blanket. Whether with friends in the countryside, family at the beach, or at home in the garden, a picnic mat is the focus of fun and togetherness. This makes finding the right one so important. With so many beautiful picnic mats, rugs and outdoor blankets on offer, it can be hard to make the right choice so here’s some savvy advice from URBANARA

## Choosing the right picnic blanket

The perfect picnic blanket must display some special qualities. It must be hardy enough to resist moisture and handle rugged outdoor use. It must be soft enough for comfortable lounging. And it must have that breezy elegance that make a statement about the spirit of summer. The good news is that today’s picnic blankets sold at URBANARA tick all the boxes.

## Picnic blankets - materials galore

Forget sticky plastic. Contemporary picnic blankets and mats come in a wide range of materials. These include natural wool and cotton, various synthetics, blends of cotton and linen, and hybrids with synthetic bottoms and natural tops for a perfect waterproof blanket.

### Wool picnic mats and blankets

Nothing beats wool picnic blankets and mats for sheer natural softness. Kids love them, and they’re so cosy when the sun goes down. They come in many forms and styles. A [wool blanket](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/blankets-throws/wool-blankets) with rubber backing is the perfect way to stay dry. Another option is to place a polyester mat on the ground and lay a soft wool blanket on top. Viola, a waterproof blanket.

### Cotton picnic blankets

With its soft and sophisticated feel, cotton is another lovely natural material for picnic blankets. Cotton picnic blankets often come with polyester wadding for sumptuous padding. Another embellishment is a polyester bottom to protect against ground moisture. These cotton picnic blankets also fold up tightly allowing them to be popped into a bag for ease of storage and transport.

### Synthetic picnic mats

While lacking the natural feel and cachet of wool and cotton, synthetics have many advantages. For one thing, materials such as acrylic are waterproof. After all, nothing puts a damper on a ground-lounging day out than soggy grass. However picnic blankets with natural tops and synthetic bottoms offer users the best of both worlds.

## Picnic blankets - revelations of style

Style-wise, plain old tartan is a thing of the past. Today’s picnic mats and blankets sport an exquisite range of striking designs, vibrant colours, and rich textures that look delightful. Along with keeping picnickers clean, dry and comfortable, their sumptuous style enhances to the whole picnic experience.

### Large picnic blanket - fun for everyone

When it comes to picnics, it’s a case of more the merrier so a large picnic blanket is a smart investment. Big families need space so it’s smart to invest in a picnic rug large enough to offer comfortable seating for everyone.

### Large picnic blankets for parties

Picnics are festive occasions so blankets need to be roomy enough to accommodate all the revellers and tough enough to deal with spills. A large picnic blanket with rubber backing makes an ideal solution. Most picnic blankets come in their own stylish tote bags making it easy to toss one into the car.

### Beach blankets for picnics on the shore

Beaches are great spots for picnics with that lovely ocean air and sound of the waves. A bright and breezy beach blanket with rubber backing offers the perfect sitting space and a quick shake at the end gets rid of all the sand.

## Find your dream picnic mat at URBANARA

Shopping online allows access to a select range of picnic blankets and mats not available on the high street. URBANARA’s exclusive models feature the blend of timeless style that ensures their popularity for many a summer. Browse the picnic mat, rug and blanket collections at URBANARA to discover the rich variety available online in the UK.

Here’s a quick overview of our offerings:

### Saldanha Picnic Blanket

Fashioned from 75% cotton and 25% linen and with a nylon waterproof reverse for dryness, and a polyester filling for comfort, this lovely picnic blanket boasts a black geometric design. It’s offered in a rich range of colours, and matching bags are available for ease of storage.

### Luo Picnic Blanket and Set

Bold spotted patterns of light grey green, black or mustard spots conjure the playful spirit of summer in this lovely picnic blanket. Available in round or rectangular shapes, it’s fashioned from soft 100% cotton canvas for a natural feel, together with a waterproof reverse of durable polyester. Each item comes complete with a handy bag

### Merkez Cotton Blanket

Woven in Istanbul, home of hamman towels, this delightful picnic or beach blanket sports a herringbone design in a range of subtle colours such as teal, mustard, black, beige, and off-white. Crafted from 100% cotton for a delicious soft warmth, it’s generous in size and features stylish knotted tassels on each end.

### Falesia Cotton Blanket

Offered in a choice of gorgeous beige, orange, olive, or terracotta, and a striking chevron design this sublime beach and picnic blanket is crafted in Portugal from pure cotton. It comes with matching Falesia Cushion.

### Gotland Wool Blankets

Fashioned from rich Scandinavian wool with a diamond weave, these blankets make lovely seating for picnics and other outdoor events. Available in soothing greys mixed with other refined colours, they feature tasselled fringes.

### Free UK delivery for all picnic mats and blankets

URBANARA offers outstanding value in the form of free delivery for all orders over £50 to addresses in the UK mainland. We also offer complete peace of mind with free returns for all items up to 100 days. It’s all part of our unique ‘Love at First Touch’ guarantee.

### Gift the spirit of summer

Picnic blankets and mats make perfect gifts. What present for a loved one could be better than the perfect means to enjoy the pleasures of summer?
