## Luxury bed linen

The high thread-counts of all URBANARA [sheets](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/bed-sheets) together with our use of high-quality long staple cotton means that they are of the very highest quality - akin to that of five-star hotel sheets and so bring a real feeling of luxury and sophistication to your home. Each product in our luxury bed linen collection is available in three sizes, 135 x 200 cm (single), 200 x 200 cm (double) and 225 x 220 cm (kingsize) whilst pillowcases are available in 50 x 75 cm. Manufactured by several small businesses in Vietnam and China, our ultra-soft luxury sheets are made with love and are are available in a range of styles and colours to suit all bedrooms. Choose from classic white sheets to more contemporary stripes, as well as hand-embroidered floral styles. Our **luxury bed linen** collection features sheets made from materials including cotton, linen and silk, which is ideal for those with sensitive skin or allergies as silk is naturally hypo-allergenic. We recommend washing most items in our luxury bedding collection at 40°C however silk items should be washed at 30°C, air dried and kept away from direct sunlight. As our **luxury bed linen** is often made especially for you in faraway parts of the world, this may result in a longer delivery time. However, with our wait and save delivery policy you can benefit from this by receiving money off the initial price.

For more information, check the delivery times on each individual product.
