Cashmere blankets
-----------------

Why invest in a cashmere blanket?
---------------------------------

Silky soft, incredibly warm, and absolutely gorgeous, a cashmere blanket is the ultimate luxury home accessory. Whether you’re shopping for something special for yourself or you’re looking for the perfect gift, there’s no looking past this sumptuous home textile.

Cashmere is one of the finest fibres on the planet. Each fibre has a diameter of between 7 and 19 microns. By comparison, standard sheep’s wool fibres have a diameter of around 36 microns. This means that each of the fibres is super fine and silky to the touch. When high-grade cashmere is woven, the result is an intensely soft, silky, lightweight fabric that feels simply amazing against the skin.

What makes a cashmere blanket so warm?
--------------------------------------

A cashmere blanket will provide unbelievable warmth thanks to its special heating and thermos-regulating properties. These luxury blankets can be up to eight times warmer than sheep’s wool and much cosier than cotton, thanks to their hollow fibres… whilst weighing a fraction of a wool blanket in the same size. These qualities makes this material perfect for winter accessories like hats, scarves and gloves – because they won’t itch like wool, and are guaranteed to keep you super warm and cosy!

Styling cashmere blankets
-------------------------

The finesse of cashmere fibre means that it possesses a natural, lustrous sheen, so doesn’t require adornment or bells and whistles to make it look naturally beautiful. The nature of the fibre allows it to be dyed with both subdued and vibrant colours – so there’s bound to be a style that will suit your home. But, unlike other wools or fibres that need to be dyed, cashmere can be softed into natural colour, so you can even find natural grey throws, brown styles, and cream designs, too.

Cashmere can be woven in chunky finishes, basket weaves, or jacquard styles with fringing for a more traditional look.

The fine yarns are perfect for intricate weaves, too: many of the styles in our collections are created using a jacquard weave, which produces subtle and timeless patterns that work well in every type of interior style.

Where can I use my cashmere blankets?
-------------------------------------

Because it’s so soft, warm, and stylish, you can use yours in any room in the home, or even as a throw or oversized scarf to cover your shoulders when you’re sitting out of doors on cold wintery nights.

In the bedroom, drape one over the bed for an extra cosy layer in winter. Paired with flannel bed linen in winter or linen bed linen in summer, it’s a touch of luxury for your bedroom that you can enjoy every day.

They’re available in lots of different styles, designs, and colours too – so no matter the colour of your bed linen or your bedspread, you’ll be sure to find one that suits your décor.

In the living room, blankets & throws add a touch of elegance to the room. They are also often available with matching cushions – so remember to check what matching accessories are available for a professional, stylish-looking space.

Because it’s a timeless fabric, cashmere won’t go out of fashion as the trends (or seasons) change; no matter the weather or the look of the day, it’s an investment that will look gorgeous will all your furniture year after year. Mix and match colours with cushions in the living room or your bedspreads and bed linen in the bedroom for ultimate style and comfort.

Why are cashmere throws so special?
-----------------------------------

Pure cashmere is not a common material. One cashmere goat produces around 150 grams of quality cashmere per year, so many animals are needed to make a 100% cashmere wool product. What’s more, cashmere fibres are collected by hand, making it extremely labour intensive. This harvesting is completed during the natural shedding process of the cashmere goats, when they’re shedding their winter coats. The fibres are actually the short, soft undercoat, which are collected and sorted by hand.

Following this, all the fibres are washed, treated and sometimes dyed, before being woven into fine yarns. Like alpaca (and alpaca blankets), cashmere is a very environmentally friendly fabric because the goats have a low carbon footprint (or hoofprint, if you prefer).

When buying a cashmere product online, ensure that you’re investing in high quality fabric. Cheap cashmere won’t last as long, is generally thinner, and will pill quickly; when buying online, it can be difficult to ensure that you’re getting the best.

Rest assured, though, that when you shop with URBANARA, you’re getting only the finest and highest quality accessories. To prove to you that we’re serious about what we do, we offer a Love at First Touch Guarantee: when you order from us, you can take up to 100 days to fall in love with your product… or send it back for free, no questions asked.

Taking care of your cashmere blanket
------------------------------------

Pure cashmere is not a common material. One cashmere goat produces around 150 grams of quality cashmere per year, so many animals are needed to make a 100% cashmere wool product. What’s more, cashmere fibres are collected by hand, making it extremely labour intensive. This harvesting is completed during the natural shedding process of the cashmere goats, when they’re shedding their winter coats. The fibres are actually the short, soft undercoat, which are collected and sorted by hand.

Following this, all the fibres are washed, treated and sometimes dyed, before being woven into fine yarns. Like alpaca (and alpaca blankets), cashmere is a very environmentally friendly fabric because the goats have a low carbon footprint (or hoofprint, if you prefer).

When buying a cashmere product online, ensure that you’re investing in high quality fabric. Cheap cashmere won’t last as long, is generally thinner, and will pill quickly; when buying online, it can be difficult to ensure that you’re getting the best.

Rest assured, though, that when you shop with URBANARA, you’re getting only the finest and highest quality accessories. To prove to you that we’re serious about what we do, we offer a Love at First Touch Guarantee: when you order from us, you can take up to 100 days to fall in love with your product… or send it back for free, no questions asked.

Cashmere blanket blends
-----------------------

If a 100% pure cashmere blanket is a little out of your budget, you can still enjoy the softness and warmth by investing in a cashmere blend. There are a few options available, but the most common are wool-cashmere blends and alpaca-cashmere blends.

These designs are usually made with around 30-50% cashmere, which elevates the overall finish to something luxurious and soft, without the price-tag of a 100% pure cashmere product.

Personalise cashmere throws
---------------------------

A cashmere throw makes a beautiful and thoughtful wedding gift, or gifts for special occasions. To make your present even more special, consider adding a personal touch thanks to our professional and affordable personalisation services.

Cashmere blankets & throws as gifts
-----------------------------------

When you buy a cashmere blanket from URBANARA, it will come beautifully and lovingly wrapped in a complementary gift box, making the perfect gift for a wedding present, for Christmas, or any other special occasion. For a beautiful gift set, why not pair a cashmere blanket with something for another room in home, like the bathroom? A cashmere blanket, quality bath towels, and high quality kitchen and tableware make the perfect extravagant house present or wedding gift for the person you love.

Buy a cashmere blanket online - UK
----------------------------------

At URBANARA you can be sure that the quality of the cashmere that we source is only the finest grade. We source our cashmere solely from Mongolian cashmere farmers who have worked with these animals for generations. Nepalese cashmere is also another of the fibres we use to make our collections.

Moreover, at URBANARA, only the softest cashmere fibres are used in our cashmere blankets & throws, which is the downy part of the goat’s coat found underneath the chin.

Because we work directly with the producers and cut out the middle man, all our cashmere blankets are cheaper and far more affordable than on the high street. With everyday low prices and only the finest quality, plus free P&P and returns to mainland UK, URBANARA’s cashmere blanket collection simply can’t be beat.

 
