The days are bright and the nights are balmy – get ready to step outside! Summer is the social season, a time to shed the extra layers and enjoy the sunshine.
Picnics are a great way to spend time outside with friends and family.

Whether you prefer relaxing in your garden, closest park or favourite beach, our picnic blankets bring style and comfort to any al fresco outing.

Pack your favourite snacks and drinks and unwind in the sun.
With a variety of designs ranging from tartan to floral, we have plenty of picnic products ranging in colour, pattern and price point.

Our leather straps make our blankets easy to transport, while matching cushions mean you can picnic comfortably into the night.
The park is great for springtime jaunts, but when summer peaks you know it’s time to hit the beach.

Find a secluded spot in the sand and spread out with a picnic, then hit the shore for a dip in the sea. 
Our special summerhammam towels are easily stowed away in your beach bag, as each design is easily rolled up into a compact size perfect for travelling.

Lightweight and fast-drying, these traditional towels originate from Turkey and have long been used in traditional baths and steam rooms. The hammam towel is a worthy summer investment due to its classic design and multiple uses.

In addition to being used as a towel, it can be worn as a scarf or sarong when you stay ashore.

This combination of style and function makes the hammam towel a perfect beach accessory. 
Whether you visit the beach or pack a picnic, there are plenty of ways to make the most of summer.

Unwind in a hammocks, read under a tree or ride your bike to the countryside.

Whatever you enjoy, make plans outdoors and celebrate the good weather with friends.
