Hammam Towels
-------------

Whether for the bathroom, spa, pool, or beach, hammam towels deliver an unmatched number of benefits including style, comfort and versatility.

Crafted from feather-light, absorbent cotton, and available in a wide range of delightful motifs and colours, hammam towels bring a sophisticated functionality to any home.

Easily packed away, they make the dream towel for travel or outings to the beach, pool, sauna and gym.

Their enduring popularity is clear from their long history.

In the spas, baths and saunas of the East, they have long been used as body wraps, and to dry off after a session in the steam.

Hammam Towels – What are they?
------------------------------

Fashioned from flat-woven cotton, these towels display some highly desirable characteristics and benefits.

Designed for the high humidity of Turkish baths, they are extremely absorbent.

They’re also very fast drying compared to regular terry cloth towels.

Meanwhile, they’re refreshingly lightweight.

In fact, they can weigh as little as one third as ordinary towels.

This makes them ideal travel accessories.

Hammam Towels – Where are they originally from?
-----------------------------------------------

These towels derive their evocative name from the traditional Turkish Baths known as hammam, a phrase which means “spreader of warmth”.

In fact these lovely cotton towels boast an even longer history as they were once used in the bathhouses of ancient Rome.

Also known as Peshtemal towels, these gorgeous items are woven by hand on traditional looms by skilled artisans.

Measuring a generous 90/95cm by 180cm, they’re ideal for both covering the body and absorbing water.

Though now quintessentially Turkish, the art of making these towels was adopted and refined by other cultures around the Mediterranean.

Examples are countries such as Tunisia and Algeria where they are known as Fouta towels.

Hammam Towels – What are they used for?
---------------------------------------

### Hammam Towels – Perfect for spa bathing and wellness

Their style, sumptuous softness and durability makes them the perfect spa towels for use in high end resorts and wellness centres.

With a heritage in the steam rooms of the Ottoman Empire, they have the strength and style to be the ideal sauna towel.

Another key factor is that the flat weave results in fewer allergens being trapped in the fibre.

So much so, that they are often also known as spa towels or wellness towels.

### Hammam Towels – Perfect on the beach

Lightweight and quick drying, the hammam towel makes the holiday and travel accessory par excellence.

Compared to standard terry-weave towels, these items are far less bulky and easy to pack away for a day at the beach or a longer holiday.

They’re ideal for boat trips for a day out on the lake or an epic voyage on an ocean liner, along with picnics and other days out in the country or bathing at the seaside.

Another benefit is that a hammam beach towel can be worn wrapped as a sarong, scarf, throw or wrap, a bed or soft blanket, soft beach seating, as well as an absorbent towel.

### Hammam Towels – Perfect for the active lifestyle

Its lightness and absorbency makes the hammam towel the ideal accessory for the exercise buff, yoga practitioner, or Pilate's enthusiast.

It can serve as a gym towel, yoga mat cover, or just for a rub down after a vigorous workout

### Hammam Towels – For a touch of Ottoman splendour in the home or bathroom

After millennia of use, Hammam towels are still desirable today in many homes and bathrooms owing to their timeless style.

They come in a range of rich and vibrant colours such as red, blue, lilac, beige and orange.

They look especially good in subtle colours such as cream and charcoal where they exhibit a refined sense of beauty.

Another feature of the flat-woven cloth is that it permits elaborate patterns to be incorporated into the fabric.

Also, many models feature delightful embellishments such as tassels and fringed edges.

Many a savvy homemaker has adopted one of these hammam towels in the UK to create coverings and wall hangings that bring a soft and subtle elegance to any room.

Hammam Towels – How to wash them
--------------------------------

Sturdily woven from quality fibres, hammam towels will deliver years of service.

Before use, owners should soak the towels in cold water overnight and then give a first machine wash and dry.

Fabric softeners are not needed.

In fact, one benefit of these towels is that they’ll naturally become softer and suppler over time.

URBANARA Hammam Towel UK Collections
------------------------------------

URBANARA offers authentic Peshtemal hammam towels from Turkey, as well as Fouta towels from Tunisia.

All are fashioned from high quality cotton and are available in a range of gorgeous designs and hues to suit every mood and setting.

### FILIZ Collection

Handwoven in Turkey, this selection is distinguished by its broad stripes, classic shades, and knotted tassels that reflect the spirit of summer.

Available in hues such as dark blue, black, raspberry, charcoal and off-white, they make the ideal accessory for use at home or on the beach or by a sparkling pool.

### LAZA Collection

Made with love and devotion, this line is fashioned from long-staple cotton which has been handwoven in a twill weave.

It features stylish fringe at each end for a touch of summer zest.

Extremely lightweight and very compact, this line is the perfect model for travel or use in the spa or wellness centre.

### MAHDIA Fouta Towel Collection

Crafted by hand in north Tunisia, this collection features an ornate partridge-eye weave in colours such as dark blue and raspberry and off-white, along with striped borders and knotted tassels.

### CESME Hammam Towel Collection

Distinguished by its chic jacquard weave, this line features an eye-catching diamond motif.

Offered in breezy colours including burgundy, grey, mustard, blue and black with white, this towel features a knotted tassel fringe.

Exclusive hammam towels in the UK
---------------------------------

Every modern home deserves a hammam towel or two, and it’s easy to find the ideal one among the extensive collection at URBANARA.

All are sourced from traditional artisans who value authenticity and integrity.

We deliver free UK-wide for all orders over £50.

To ensure our customers are delighted with every purchase, we offer free 100-day returns on all products.


