Linen Bedding
-------------

Distinctively soft, dependably durable, and unmistakably classic, our 100% linen duvet and pillows and sheets from URBANARA transforms bedrooms with their sheer style and usability. You can also easily combine linen bed lining with other textiles and home accessories from URBANARA. We only curate products that match our ethos of timeless style, in complimentary and calming colours which can be mixed and matched to fit your home's style and aesthetic.

Lovely bedrooms demand lovely bed linen materials and this fabric is a true gift from Mother Nature. Whether in the form of sumptuous sheets, inviting duvet covers, or complete linen bedding sets, linen’s myriad qualities make it the dream fabric for today’s bedding.

### The lure of linen bedding

Fashioned from the fibres of the flax plant, linen is oldest recorded natural textile with a history dating back millennia. Known to the ancient Romans as ‘woven wind’, linen is today undergoing a renaissance as families switch to natural fibres for their bed linen and come to learn of linen’s remarkable qualities. Undoubtedly a premium product, its quality, durability and sheer usability makes linen bedding a fine investment. In fact, it’s so long-lasting that linen bed linen can be considered to be an heirloom.

The benefits of linen bedding
-----------------------------

### Comfort

Comfort is key when it comes to duvet covers and sheets, and linen wins hands down all year round. For one thing, while textured, linen is not rough or cause on the skin, rather it is deliciously soft and gets smoother with age. Plus linen fibres are hollow which allows the free movement of air and moisture. In winters, this works as natural insulation to keep sleepers warm, while in summer it confers breathability and ensures cool nights.

### Durability

In days of yore, the sails of square riggers were crafted from linen which indicates the hardiness of the material. With a strength derived from the thickness of its fibres, linen is one of the most long lasting fabrics on earth and is also moth and fungus resistant.

### Other materials for woven storage boxes and containers

While favouring the organic, we do use synthetics when warranted. One example is our CHAMPA range of laundry and general storage baskets, boxes and racks. These include items fashioned from a cotton blend fabric to ensure a desirable resistance to mould and moisture.

### Hygiene

A clean and fresh sleeping environment is vital for healthy living and linen helps by wicking perspiration away from the skin. It also naturally repels dust and dirt. The result is dry, hygienic bedding and is especially beneficial for sleepers who suffer from allergies and those with sensitive skin.

### Sustainability

Linen is a fantastic choice for the sustainably minded, as the flax plant from which linen is produced requires no irrigation (watering) and uses very little fertiliser or pesticides.

Linen bedding - how it differs to cotton
----------------------------------------

Though similar in appearance and texture, linen and cotton bed linen have many key differences. For one thing, the flax fibres used to make linen and much thicker than those of cotton. This makes for a lower thread count of 80-150 in contrast to cotton which starts at 200. (Linen sheet are measured by fabric weight not thread count). For this reason, linen is the world’s strongest natural fibre, and at least twice as strong as cotton. The wonderful bonus is that it’s also softer, but only in the long run.

When freshly spun, linen is stiffer than cotton but it softens over time. It makes owning linen bedding an experience to be savoured slowly over the years as one would enjoy a rare vintage.

What does linen bedding feel like to sleep in?
----------------------------------------------

As a fabric distinguished by its softness and breathability, a bed featuring 100% linen bedding is a joy to sleep in. It’s also anti-cling and anti-static for comfort. Linen sheets are smooth and cool in any weather, and snuggling under a duvet or quilt with a linen cover is like being in a warm cocoon.

### Texture - how soft is linen bed linen?

Owing to its large fibres, linen does display a distinct noticeable texture, especially when newly spun. However, it’s a texture that’s soft and yielding, and not rough or itchy. In fact, its stiffness makes for less stickiness to the skin which enhances its cool and pleasant feel. When new, linen is crisper than cotton but over time becomes supremely soft.

Linen duvet covers and sheets - how to wash them
------------------------------------------------

Linen is a wonderfully durable fabric and one that actually improves with age. It just needs to be treated well which is very straightforward. Another big plus is that it resists dirt and stains. This means less washing is required and it stays fresher longer.

### How to keep linen bed linen white

The best way to keep linen white and crisp is to cold wash it and then line dry in the fresh air. However, regular machine washing and tumble drying are both fine, though chlorine bleach should be avoided and the dryer should be set to low heat.

What is linen bedding like temperature wise?
--------------------------------------------

One of the many wonderful features of linen is the way it feels cool in summer and warm in winter. Its hollow fibres enable efficient absorption of moisture and heat and make it a natural insulator.

### Is linen bedding warm or cool?

Linen is always cool and dry to the touch which makes it incomparable as a bed linen material. However, its insulating properties make it very versatile. When the weather heats up linen’s breathability keeps temperatures down. In the chill of winter, it traps warmth for snug nights.

### Summer linen bedding

Slipping into linen bed linen is a sure way to keep cool on hot summer nights. Other than its matchless high air permeability, linen is also non-stick and soothing to the skin.

Lovely linen bedding from URBANARA
----------------------------------

URBANARA's superior selection of home accessories includes a sumptuous range of linen fitted sheets and elegant linen duvet covers for all bed sizes. Our ranges are offered in subtle and tasteful colours of white and grey-green that preserves the natural classic look of the fabric. Embellishments such as hemstitched borders, mother-of-pearl buttons and charcoal piping add an attractive accent.

In addition, we stock complete linen bedding sets including white linen bedding, grey linen bedding and king size linen duvet covers. Our bed linen has a lineage as rich as the fabric itself. Fashioned from 100% linen from Belgium, acknowledged to be the world’s finest, the yarn is woven into sheets by textile experts in Portugal using traditional weaving techniques.

### Complimentary home accessories and textiles available in linen

We also offer a wide range of other bedroom textiles in linen, including bedspreads and comforters, curtains and cushions. A linen quilt or bedspread is perfect to combine with a linen sheet for the warmer summer nights when even a summer duvet is a little too much temperature wise. Linen cushions, can we used to pick up other patterns or colours in your bedroom décor, or make the guest bedroom look all that bit more welcoming. These, and other bedroom textiles can we storaged away neatly at night in a wickerstorage basket at the end of the bed.

### Shop online easily with URBANARA

Shopping online with URBANARA offers convenient access to a rare selection of linen bedding and other home accessories. We source directly from producers, so we are able to provide a high quality product that’s made to last, but is equally a very affordable option for linen bedding.

All orders with a value of over £50 qualify for free delivery anywhere on the UK mainland. In addition, shoppers can order with confidence as our Love at First Touch guarantee allows free returns for any reason within 90 days of purchase. See T&Cs for details.

Our customer service team is standing by to answer any queries and to offer advice to ensure customers get exactly the linen bedding they’re looking for - linen sheets and a linen duvet cover that both delight the eye and are a joy to sleep on. Feel free to contact us and our friendly team on +44 (0)800 77 97 527 (freecall within mainland UK).

 
