 

## Rugs

With an array of patterns, styles, textures, sizes and (of course) colours available, the variety and options for rugs are seemingly endless.

No matter for what room in the home, or whether it’s for practical purposes or purely aesthetic ones, a rug can really work to ground a room, inject an enormous amount of energy, create a huge style statement or help to unify different decorative elements in a room.

They will also help make a space warmer and more inviting, providing softness underfoot and help to insulate your home in the colder months.

## Rugs & runners for every room in the home

Rugs are available in lots of different sizes – you should think about the space and how you intend to use the rug, as well as how it will be arranged with your furniture, before you decide on which size to buy.

##  Extra-large rugs

Extra large rugs, or area rugs, are a brilliant solution for people who have old or unsightly flooring.

To cover large expanses of dated linoleum, tiles, or even a shabby carpet in a rental property, lay down a fresh, contemporary rug and watch your room transform before your eyes.

### Medium-sized and round rugs

Medium sized rugs, round rugs, and non-area rugs are useful to help visually divide a space and provide a little extra comfort around furniture pieces that you use to rest an relax on.

A rug under the coffee table in the living room, for example, will help to group the sofas together and divide the room.

It will also be more accommodating for when you have extra guests on chairs or floor cushions.

A medium sized rug that’s slightly wider than the width of your bed (when placed at the foot) or longer than the bed’s length (when placed on the side) gives you a little more cosiness when you wake up and get out of bed in the morning.

## What material rug should I buy?

There are several materials you can consider when investing in a rug.

The most important thing to keep in mind is that the material is natural and of a high quality.

High quality materials are important because a rug withstands a lot of wear and tear, and perhaps not just on a daily basis, but multiple times a day.

Especially when shoes are worn in the area where the rug will be placed, it’s essential that the fibre is durable.

Synthetic fibres are much weaker and susceptible to breaking than natural fibres are: wool fibres, for example, can withstand upwards of 20,000 bends before breaking – while synthetic fibres are only a fraction of this, and will also dry out and snap.

Because of this, a 100% natural rug will not shed its fibres or pill, so it will look beautiful for much, much longer.

Moreover, fabrics made from plastic, like nylon, acrylic or polyester are flammable, making them a less-safe option for your home.

These materials too are much more likely to give you carpet burn than their natural counterparts.

Also, if you’re standing barefoot or sitting on a natural rug, you’re more likely to sweat because the fibres don’t breathe.

### Benefits of 100% natural rugs

Additionally, natural fibres won’t trap odours, while synthetic ones will, which is important to avoid for rugs because they typically take up a lot of floor space.

Non-natural materials are static, too, so will attract dust.

Because they don’t breathe, they can also become a breeding ground for mites, both of which can irritate individuals with allergies or respiratory problems like asthma.

As you can see, there are several compelling reasons to invest in a 100% natural rug or runner, or swap to one if you haven’t already.

Your home will be healthier and safer if you do.

### Rugs made from 100% cotton

Cotton rugs and runners are soft underfoot and don’t have the prickly feeling that wool sometimes has, so it’s great for kids’ rugs and those who are sensitive to lanolin, the naturally-occurring oil in sheep’s wool.

Cotton is smoother than wool so usually has a less ‘fuzzy’ finish, and has less of a matt effect.

Cotton rugs are often washable, making them a good option for the kitchen where spills and splatters occur.

## Rugs & runners made from wool and new wool

Wool is dirt and mildew resistant.

It is one of the most durable fibres, so wool rugs are the ideal choice for high-traffic zones, like the hallway or kitchen.

Its ability to absorb and retain impurities without developing an odour makes it a good choice for most rooms in the home, particularly in the bedrooms and living room where it’s important to have a fresh feeling.

Wool is the most insulating of all rugs, so a welcome addition to homes with cold floors.

## Jute and other natural fibre rugs

Jute is soft like wool and takes well to chunky or textural knits.

For those looking for a natural and grounding effect, jute rugs might be just what you’re looking for: it is plant based (so is vegan friendly) and is naturally off-white or brown.

The textural appearance is wonderful for an earthy addition to Scandinavian or eclectic décor.

## Styling with rugs and runners

This simple accessory can be forgotten when first thinking about decorating or accessorising, but you’d be misguided in thinking that it can simply be an afterthought.

When used correctly, rugs can have a huge impact on your home, in some cases literally transforming a space, without doing anything else to the room.

## Different coloured rugs

Because a carpet or rug takes up a lot of space, it will have a big visual impact, especially if it is a bright colour, displays a bold, eye-catching pattern, or if it contrasts with other elements of the room (for example, if you have a bright blue rug next to a bright red sofa… which we don’t particularly recommend!).

If you’re looking to make a statement, red, yellow, orange or light pink rugs can have a big effect and are suitable for rooms which are in need of a bit of warmth.

This might be a room which doesn’t benefit from a lot of direct, natural sunlight, or which uses lots of cool colours in the décor, like pale grey, white and cool light brown or off-white.

Be wary if you have cream, beige, or off-white walls with a yellow or pink tinge: these are warm colours, and will only feel warmer if you incorporate a bright warm rug! Red and yellow rugs for the living room or bedroom can also be problematic if the room experiences full sunlight, because you might find that the room feels too hot, all of a sudden!

For rooms with a warm palette or which are naturally light and bright, go for a grey rug, natural browns and soft blues.

For a bold design that isn’t too ‘warming’, a forest green or black rug will do the job.

Pastels too can have a surprisingly big impact, as well as simple, repetitive geometric motives in neutral or subdued colours.

Generally, block-coloured rugs are much easier to pair with patterned sofas and bedspreads & quilts, while geometric or patterned rugs will help to give a little interest to subdued or classic-style furnishings and accessories.

## Rug layering

Aside from simply selecting a style and design that suit your décor, rug layering is having a big moment.

This interior trend involves using similar style rugs, which slightly overlap each other, to create a large, patchwork floor covering.

While you should use rugs with different designs, they should have a unifying element or be roughly the same style to avoid creating something too chaotic.

## Rugs for the bedroom

A rug in the bedroom should be soft, comfortable, promote calm and relaxation, and healthy (which you should be able to tick off your list immediately if you’ve opted to buy rugs made of natural materials).

For this reason, it’s sensible to imagine or think about how the colour or pattern makes you feel, and whether you want to experience this in the bedroom, which is where you should go to relax and unwind.

In this line of thinking, you may decide that a fire-engine red carpet is a little too stimulating for the bedroom.

On the other hand, if you want your bedroom to be a romantic, warm getaway or one which gives you a burst of energy in the morning, it may be a colour that will work well for you.

The bedroom is The Place – capital ‘T’ capital ‘P’ – to lay a chunky, hand-knotted, or high-pile rug.

These rug styles are beautifully soft and textured, but are the most likely to trap dirt and flecks.

Since your bedroom is the space you’re most likely to walk bare foot and has a relatively low amount of foot traffic (compared with, say, the entrance or hall way, the kitchen, or even the living room… think of your guests!) it’s the absolute perfect room in the house to have one of these designs.

Naturally, you can also place a heavily textured rug in the living room, but be prepared for some serious vacuuming if you use one in the kitchen or dining room!

## Rugs for the dining room and kitchen

In the same way that not all bed linen is suitable for all seasons (flannel bed linen in winter is ideal, but you should swap to a cooler linen bed linen in summer), not all rugs are suitable for all rooms in the home.

For dining room and kitchen rugs, you should look for a flat weave design, or one with a very low pile; in other words, one that doesn’t trap crumbs or readily soak up spills.

The best rugs therefore to place under a dining table or in front of the kitchen workspace is a cotton or flat weave wool design.

While wool is much better then concealing stains than cotton is, (most) cotton carpets and rugs have the advantage of being washable, so you needn’t lament every spill and accident with either material.

## Rugs and carpets for the living room

The living room probably leaves the most room (pun certainly intended) for rug choices because it’s the space that won’t be overly trafficked and won’t get as dirty as in the kitchen or dining room.

For this reason, tufted rugs with high piles are just as at home here as what plan weave cotton or hand knotted rugs are: it really depends on the style of your space as to what you go for.

Geometric rugs work very well in the living room for a style lift.

Two tone designs, or floor coverings with natural finishes like natural, undyed jute rugs are excellent for grounding a space but also for making it warm and inviting through the use of brown hues.

You can also buy your rug to match other elements or accessories in your décor.

Compliment the curtains, cushions, or blankets & throws in the room by picking a design that uses some of the same shades, and you will get the impression that the colours ‘pop’ more.

## What size rug should you buy?

When you’re picking out a carpet rug for the living room, try to ensure that it’s large enough for all the front legs of your sofa(s) can sit on the rug.

If you have a very large and open living space, then consider an area rug instead (around 200 x 300 cm), which will be large enough to place your seating completely on the rug.

This will help to divide the space and create different areas.

Similarly, if you want to create a reading corner, opt for a small rug or even a round rug that will fit your armchair and a floor lamp or a small coffee table with a reading lamp.

## What weave rug should you buy?

### Handwoven and loomed rugs

Rug weaving has been around for centuries, and tapestry has been used in homewares as far back into the past as we can see.

The art of rug weaving is a skill that produces beautiful patterns and designs and the weaving method will give the finished product a distinct look.

### Plain weave, twill weave, and diamond weave rugs

Plain woven, hand-woven, and twill weave rugs, for example, can be either block coloured or display intricate patterns and designs.

Most geometric rugs will be made using this weave.

Because the weave isn’t ornamental or decorative by itself, the interest in the design will come from the colour, pattern or fringing.

A diamond weave is often used to create a herringbone rug or one with delicate geometric patterns.

The diamond weave, when woven using a single colour, is slightly more textural than a plain or twill weave design.

Plain weave rugs, twill weave rugs, and diamond weave rugs are low profile designs, meaning that they are not as thick, and can only be as soft underfoot as their material allows, since it can’t be built up by weaving.

### Tufted rugs

Tufted rugs, on the other hand, are made by threading individual yarns through a plain woven base, which creates either a low or high pile – the kind of plush rug that you can sink your fingers into.

For something very soft underfoot, a tufted rug is a good option.

### Hand-knotted rugs

Another great option if you’re looking for something with lots of give is a bouclé style or hand-knotted rug.

These have a lot of mass, and can be very thick and structured.

They are usually only woven with a single colour, but the yarns may be blended beforehand for a mottled effect.

These types of rugs have a soft and cosy look, thanks to their textural finish and the slight fuzziness of their edges.

Whichever weave you’re going for, the trick is to remember what your carpets and rugs will look like with your remaining furniture, in which room it will be used, and how they should make you feel when you lay it down.

## Buy rugs & carpets online in the UK

At URBANARA, we know everything there is to know about rugs & runners.

From on-trend designs, to different materials and weaving techniques, to how to add style to your home with the help of new floor accessories, you can be sure that each and every rug in our extensive collection has been chosen for a purpose, and quality controlled.

In addition, every rug in our collection is certified by independent certification bodies to ensure that no child labour was used in their production – because we believe that everyone deserves to enjoy quality, and that beautiful products are never made in unfair working conditions.

The main certifier, Care & Fair, also re-invests the money it collects from the certification process into the communities where the rugs were made.

## Free delivery for all rugs and runners in the UK

We offer free delivery to the mainland UK on all orders over £50 as well as free returns for 100 days.

We do this so you can shop conveniently from home without having to worry about getting all your wares safely back to your house.

It also means that you can shop confidently: if it’s not exactly how you imagined it, or the colour or style doesn’t work as well as you had hoped, simply return it for free within 100 days.

We call it our Love at First Touch Guarantee.

## Custom sized rugs and extra-large designs

URBANARA also offers customisation on many of our rug designs.

If you’d like something for a particular room in the home or need something slightly bigger than normal, simply send us a message via our personalisation page.

Alternatively, you can also freecall our friendly customer service team to speak with us directly on 0800 77 97 527 between business hours, Monday to Friday.

Our customer service team are also styling and product experts, so they can provide you with custom advice if you need help choosing the perfect rug or carpet runners for your home.
