Throws made with love.
----------------------

What’s so good about a sofa throw?
----------------------------------

A sofa throw is one of those small living room accents that, when made of high-quality materials and selected to match your interior, can really pack a style punch.

It’s a small accessory that you can dress your couch with and which leaves lots of room for being daring with colour, style and pattern.

It’s like the proverbial cherry for your sofa.

Why use a sofa throw?
---------------------

These pieces are fantastic for creating a statement sofa, or for upping the deco ante in your living room.

Sofa throws can be matched with cushions or curtains for a professional look, and can give your living room a vibrant pop of colour.

If you want to experiment with a new palette or a bit of pattern, you can use this simple accessory to introduce a colour or a geometric print, for example.

On the other hand, this humble accessory can also help to subdue or blend a loud, bright-coloured couch into a room.

If you have a red sofa, for example, or one with a busy pattern, use a grey or cream sofa throw in a plain design to pull it back a notch and help it gel with the rest of your furnishings.

You can use a sofa throw for more than just the couch, though.

Drape one over the end of your bed for when you’re lounging around and reading at the weekend, or for when you need an extra layer when the cold sets in.

A sofa throw is great for a big armchair or a settee too; basically anything that you can sit in or lie on makes the cut.

If you want to create a little reading corner in your living room or bedroom for example, an armchair, a small side table, and a sofa throw are all you need.

This living room accessory is great for protecting the couch when you don’t want to use a sofa cover.

Kids and pets They’re also a wonderful way to give your room a touch of cosiness.

In wintertime especially, a warm addition to your sofa is a welcome accessory.

When you walk into a room, a sofa throw that is draped over a couch can break up the lines of a room and give it a welcome, lived-in feeling, without having to do too much at all.

Creating a comfortable space is important in summer too, because even if you don’t want to stay warm (in fact, you probably want to avoid this), you still want your living space to feel comfortable and relaxed.

A smooth, tight-knit sofa throw in light, bright and cool colours can make your summer living room dreamy, bright and comfortable.

Sofa throws for pets?
---------------------

Some will even use one for their pets in a dog or cat basket.

While it’s your prerogative to decide whether a sofa throw is the best thing for your pet, remember that natural fibres are still the absolute best way to go because they last much longer than synthetic ones.

If you’re looking for a sofa throw for your dog or cat, the best material to choose is a wool or cotton design.

That’s because both wool and cotton are extremely durable – much, much more than polyester or viscose – and won’t statically charge like fabrics made of plastic.

This means that they’ll stay cleaner for longer.

Of the natural fibres, wool and cotton are the most sensible choice because they are the most affordable of all natural fibres, and can be washed at home in the washing machine… which is very important if it’s for your pet!

Affordable sofa throws
----------------------

Wool is a great choice for a sofa throw because it’s durable, warm and versatile.

Depending on the finish, woollen throws can be soft, fine and smooth looking, or chunky and textured.

The latter are more suited to rustic and wintery interiors, while the tightly knitted ones suit all décors.

Browse dozens and dozens of wool blankets online at URBANARA - your only job will be finding one that suits your look.

Cotton sofa throws are also affordable, versatile, easy to care for and come in a vast array of colours and designs.

Because cotton can be dyed in (almost) any colour and woven with almost any type of weave, the designs are practically endless.

If you’re looking for a statement-making living accessory for all year round, there’s certainly one that fulfils your needs.

Luxury sofa throws
------------------

If you’re looking to add a touch of luxury to your living space, start with a luxury sofa throw: gorgeous designs made of cashmere, for example, are silky soft and deliciously warm, and display a silk-like lustre, too.

Thanks to this, and the fact that it is so rare and labour-intensive to harvest, sort and spin, cashmere is the most expensive and luxurious fibre of all.

When cared for properly, cashmere blankets will last your life time (and live to be handed down, too), so it really is an investment, and therefore makes a wonderfully thoughtful and memorable gift.

Yak hair is another luxurious fibre – don’t let the image of the strong, hard-working animal fool you! Yak fibres are very fine and have a diameter of approximately 17 to 19 microns, which is around the same diameter as cashmere fibres.

This fineness makes for very soft fabric when it’s woven.

Yak wool sofa throws have more of a felted quality, so are great for those who want something that looks and feels like sheep wool, but which is more refined and lustrous.

Sofa throw sizes
----------------

You should decide which sofa throw you need based on what you want to use it for.

If it’s part of a reading corner for an armchair or settee, you can opt for a smaller size; 130 x 190 cm or 140 x 170 cm should be ample.

Likewise for a one- or two-seater sofa: a small one would suffice, even if you intend to drape it over the back of the couch.

Unless you’re looking a throw for your knees, aim for a sofa throw that is at least one metre wide (and of course, longer than the width), because anything less is encroaching into shawl territory.

And you want to avoid looking like you have decorated your couch with a scarf.

Large sofa throws
-----------------

If you’re looking for something that you can use on your bed, why not consider a large sofa throw? It’s a little less formal than a bedspread or quilt, and are more versatile, too.

If you’re lacking in blankets for your next movie night, or for when guests come over, a large sofa throw will always come to the rescue!

Buying Sofa Throws online - UK
------------------------------

After you’ve decided what type of material, style and size you want, it’s incredibly easy to buy throws for the sofa and bed online.

At URBANARA, we offer a huge range of sofa and bed throws in dozens of designs.

All our collections use only the finest natural materials, so you can be sure you’re investing in excellent quality, and a piece that will pass the test of time.

When shopping from us, you can also feel secure knowing that we offer 100 days to return your order free of charge, no matter what you purchase.

So if your sofa accessory isn’t exactly the way you had imagined it, you can send it back, no questions asked.

Taking care of sofa throws: what you need to know
-------------------------------------------------

Unless you’re someone who has both a winter and summer décor, you shouldn’t need to store this accessory away often.

In the case you do, or you keep an extra one on hand for when guests visit, then there are a couple of things remember when storing your product.

For cleaning, each throw, like all sofas, will have their own washing instructions.

Read these carefully before washing, and always consider the type of fabric before putting it in the washing machine or tumble dryer.

Second, make sure you store it away in a dry cupboard.

Especially if it’s made of natural fibres, you should make sure that it’s one hundred percent dry before folding and putting it away, so the fabric doesn’t get mouldy.

For designs that are made out of any type of wool, it’s a good idea to tuck an anti-moth satchel between the throw’s folds.

So it doesn’t smell like naphthalene when you’re finally ready to use it, make a natural anti-moth satchel instead.

A bag of dried lavender is a natural and nice-smelling alternative.

This treatment should apply for sheep wool, lambswool, cashmere, yak and also alpaca blankets and throws.

Sofa throws make excellent gifts, no matter their taste or your budget
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Because they are available in a myriad designs, colours, styles and sizes, there’s really one to suit all tastes.

In addition, it makes a pretty yet practical gift, and one that they’re sure to use and love for a long time.

Depending on the dimensions of the sofa throw and the material with which it’s made, there’s one that fits all budgets too: go for a luxury sofa throw for a loved one or newlyweds, or one made from cotton or wool for a simple yet thoughtful gift.

Whether they’re a colleague, friend or family member, you can be sure that it’s always something that will be well received.

At URBANARA, we offer embroidery and customisation for all our sofa throws and textile collections, so you can make your gift extra personal with their initials, a sweet message, or a special date.

Simply visit our customisation page and send a message to our customer service team with the product you’d like to personalise, along with your message, and they’ll get back to you with more information.


