## Curtains

## Beautiful curtains for a modern lifestyle

Much more than mere strips of cloth, curtains are important home accessories that play a central role in the form and function of a room.

In terms of form they can confer a sense of harmony or act as a stunning focal point.

Functionally, they keep out noise, cold and prying eyes, and play an important part in the light levels in a room when combined with lamps and other lighting.

This includes protecting carpet and furniture from damaging UV light.

Curtains also allow for fast and easy makeovers.

Installing new curtains can quickly revive a drab space or revamp the mood and feel of a room.

Choose URBANARA for curtains that endow a room with matchless elegance and livability.

## Which curtains to choose

When deciding on which curtains to choose, it’s first necessary to consider their intended use.

This allows informed choices regarding materials, fabric density, style, and colour.

Other important factors include the decor and lighting in the room.

### Materials used for URBANARA curtains

URBANARA offers an elegant range of designs, which include cotton curtains, as well as those made from linen, velvet, and other blends.

Each of these lovely materials has its own special qualities, offering homeowners a rich and flexible choice.

Product lines are continually updated as our buyers unearth new items, trends and styles.

Organic cotton can be woven finely to create sheer curtains or voiles that deliver a warm soft light.

Available in solid colours and subtle or bold patterns, cotton curtains look especially good with a jacquard weave, which gives the fabric a nice drape and helps the panels to break beautifully on the floor.

URBANARA’s linen curtains are made exclusively from high-quality flax for a natural, textured effect: depending on the thickness of the fabric, linen curtains can be either semi-transparent, allowing some light to filter through but still retaining privacy, or opaque – meaning less light filters through.

Linen curtains are also offered with stylish fringed edges.

Linen curtains are especially practical because of the fabric’s natural anti-static qualities, so it won’t attract dust.

They are therefore excellent curtains for allergy sufferers.

Crafted from pure cotton, velvet’s dense pile results in a smooth and silky feel along with considerable opacity and heat insulation.

Style-wise, the rich texture of velvet curtains creates a timeless sense of drama in any setting.

Moreover, like linen, velvet drapes beautifully.

### Curtain fabric density

Curtain fabric density determines how much heat, light and sound passes through the material and thus its qualities.

Pay attention to the fabric used to make the curtains, for example, a plain cotton curtain may have a different fabric density to velvet curtains.

Sheer curtains, usually made from cotton, feature the least density and thus the most transparency.

This breezy style is perfect for the daytime when homeowners seek both illumination and privacy.

It’s also a good way to keep out UV light which can cause carpets and upholstery to fade.

At the other end of the spectrum are blackout curtains.

Fashioned from heavy linen/cotton blends or velvet, and often with a backing, these are perfect for use in bedrooms.

Other than ensuring complete darkness, they also muffle sound and create a cosy cocoon affect for sleeping in at the weekends.

A compromise is available in the form of mid-weight fabrics such as linen curtains.

### Curtains colour

When it comes to choosing colours for curtains, users can either choose either colours that match existing decor and home accessories for harmony, or opt for contrasting hues to create a statement.

Colour also affects transparency.

Darker shades are more suitable for bedrooms and rooms requiring privacy and less light, for example a dark grey curtain or blue curtain would be well suited here.

One factor to bear in mind is that warm colours can overpower in bright, sunny spaces.

For homeowners with grey walls, the choice of colour depends on the effect desired.

Choosing grey curtains will result in an enhanced sense of space.

Fitting curtains with vibrant colours and patterns will create a striking contrast.

However, while a bright curtain can make a bold and appealing statement piece, be careful not to combine it with other décor items in similar shades.

For example, if bright blue curtains are desired, pair them with smaller blue home accessories in a similar tone, and go for a more neutral or toned down colour on the other large elements in the room, such as rugs, sofas or walls.

URBANARA curtains come in a range of colours, such as white, grey, blue, natural, clay, brown and beige, in various tones and shades.

### Style of curtains fixtures

Curtains can be fixed in a variety of ways.

Increasingly popular are eyelet curtains in which metal rings are sewn into the curtain header.

Eyelet curtains are also called ring top curtains, these are also available with ornate designs such as antique silver.

Similar are hanging loops made of fabric or plastic.

Other popular options include fabric tunnels.

Also known as rod pockets, these are reinforced spaces at the top of the curtain into which the rod or pole is threaded.

Other accessories include ties or tiebacks that work to keep curtains open.

They take the form of cords, sashes, or strips of fabric which can also have a nice decorative effect.

The types of fixtures offer a more modern look, rather than opting for the more traditional eyelet curtains.

## How to measure curtains

Measuring curtains is very straightforward but it's very important to do it properly; if the curtains are too short, or appear to be too long, it can sit badly with the ambience of the room and take away from the beautiful curtain material used.

The curtain rod, pole or track should be fitted some 15 centimetres above the window recess.

Then the next step is to measure the width of the window and add on at least another 35 centimetres – you can also times the window width by 1.5 depending on how many folds you want.

## Curtains - how far from the floor should they hang?

Curtain hanging length depends on preferences, window type, room layout, and the presence of items such as radiators or heaters.

As a rough rule, they should finish around 1.25 centimetres above or 15 centimetres below a window sill depending on taste.

Long curtains, which tend to be floor length, generally end around 1.5 centimetres from the floor, though some users prefer the romantic ‘pooling’ look offered byextra-long curtains: this is when the curtain panel ‘breaks’ on the floor.

## Curtains for windows – the benefits

Homeowners have many options when it comes to window dressings.

So why choose curtains?

One good reason is that curtains are available in a stunning range of styles, patterns, colours and materials.

This choice allows homeowners almost infinite design choices.

Long curtains are particularly good at emphasising ceiling height in a room; in a building with high ceilings, it’s nice to emphasis this feature with a pair of long or floor length curtains.

However, if looking for drapes for a kitchen or bathroom, shorter curtains can be a nicer option as they tend to be less exposed to dirt and dust on the floor which is more common in these rooms.

Other than style choice, homeowners can also choose the ideal curtains for their desired privacy, transparency, and heat insulation.

### Style & interior design

With so many styles, textures, patterns and colours available, curtains provide users with a rich palette to create their own interior design.

Subtle grey and blue curtains can blend in for harmony, while more vibrant hues can render striking splashes of colour.

### Curtains for room ambiance

Curtains play a key role in establishing the mood and atmosphere of a room.

Choosing sheer curtains in cotton or linen results in bright and airy ambiance in in the daytime.

On the other hand, long curtains made of heavy fabrics work to create cosy quiet spaces at night especially when combined with the artful use of lighting.

A nice and easy way to create a cohesive look in your home is to pair your bedroom or living room curtains with matching [cushions](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/cushions).

Linen cushions are lovely for the bed and sofa in particular.

In addition, try matching other soft furnishings like blankets and throws with the curtain colour.

A blue, cream, or grey curtain can easily be paired with a grey [alpaca blanket](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/blankets-throws/alpaca-blankets), [wool blanket](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/blankets-throws/wool-blankets), or even a [cashmere blanket](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/blankets-throws/cashmere-blankets) for something luxurious.

### Privacy with window curtains

Proper window curtains are vital for privacy and their choice depends on the use and location of the room and the position of the windows in relation to the street outside and neighbouring buildings.

One handy option is to fit double layer curtains.

This comprises of a light fabric next to the window pane for daytime use, and a heavier outer one for the evening.

Layering curtains can also help to adjust the lighting levels in a room.

### Curtains to assists with temperature control

Curtains offer a way to control heat insulation and can be changed as required.

In hot summers, gauzy fabrics can let in breezes, while in winter they can be replaced by thick fabric for warmth.

## Online shopping in the UK for curtains at URBANARA

URBANARA offers distinctive collections of fine curtains that can be ordered online for easy delivery right to your door.

Orders with a value of over £50 qualify for free shipping to anywhere in the UK mainland.

Customers can buy with confidence with our Love at First Touch guarantee which offers free returns for any reason within 100 days of purchase.

We understand our customers are individuals with their own sophisticated tastes so our customer service team is standing by to assist in any way they can.

Please contact us via our friendly team for free on 0800 77 97.
