## Anti-allergy bedding

Our various collections of anti-allergy bed linen, fitted sheets and quilts are available in a range of sizes and styles meaning those with allergies will be able to find something to suit all bedrooms.

Many of our anti-allergy bed linen products have the NOMITE, Dauncara, and OEKO-TEX速 Standard 100 certification.

NOMITE certified products have been proven to not contain allergens or chemicals that can cause suffering to those with allergies. The Daunacara certification applies to duvets and pillows.The dense down that characterises Daunacara certified products means that mites have very little chance to crawl inside, ensuring that bedding is safe for allergy sufferers.

The OEKO-TEX速 Standard 100 is an independent test and certification process for textiles, raw, produced and end products, at all stages of manufacturing. The key purpose is to guarantee products that only contain textiles that pose no harm to human health. 

All duvets and pillows carrying the Downafresh速 certificate are filled with feathers and down that have been thoroughly washed and dried at a temperature of at least 100 degrees, complying with the European Standard hygiene requirements. Manufacturers using the Downafresh速 certification have agreed to have their products regularly checked by an independent testing laboratory for compliance with the hygiene and cleanliness requirements of the European Standard.

For more information on the certification we use for many of our products, please see our recognising quality page.