Grey throws
-----------

Grey throws – what’s not to love?
---------------------------------

Grey is universally loved by interior designers because it is refined and elegant, but also calming and casual. There is simply no colour that a shade of grey won’t compliment: from red and pink, to yellow and green, to blues and teals and brown and orange – grey is unique (aside from black and white) in its ability to perfectly match and bring out the best in all colour palettes. Even grey on grey – a huge interior trend right now – is effortlessly elegant. At once classic and contemporary, it really is the king of decorating colours.

In terms of accessories, the same can be said of throws. Warm, soft, comforting, versatile – an a cover, an extra layer, a style statement, as a blanket coat when it’s cold out or even as a picnic blanket (if it’s made of wool), a throw is something that a home can never, ever have enough of. Guests at the weekend? Use a throw to turn their night bed into a day bed. Quiet night in? Cosying up with a blanket on the couch is a vision of happiness.

Marry the two pinnacles of interior design – grey and throws – and what do you get? The ultimate in homeware accessories. So versatile, so pretty, it’s the stuff of genius decorating.

Grey throws for every room
--------------------------

### Grey cable knit throws

Because it’s such a neutral colour, grey works well no matter what the knit, pattern, or design of the blanket. A traditional or classic weave, like a cable knit, is excellent in grey. This pattern and colour combination makes for a classic and elegant-looking piece. It’s especially suitable for rustic and traditional interiors, and is a style that is particularly suited for the transitional months.

### Grey throws with geometric designs

Both bold geometric patterns and subtle repetitive motifs can spice up a living room or bedroom, giving the area a contemporary edge and lift the energy of a space. A bold geometric pattern, however, can be hard to incorporate into many décors because the overall look is loud and busy.

On the other hand, if you’d like to add more patterned texture to your room but are finding it hard to pattern block (or find the process a little overwhelming with colours), a grey throw with a geometric design could be the answer to all your decorating problems.

Why? Grey immediately pars down any colour scheme, so when paired with another neutral colour like black, cream, black or even red, the pattern becomes immediately more subdued. A bold geometric bedspread in grey and white, for example, is much less loud than in a bright red and white… but is nonetheless extremely eye-catching and statement making.

When pattern blocking, different styles and designs will always work together providing the same greys are featured in each of the accessories, and is guaranteed to create fantastic visual interest.

Grey throws for the bedroom
---------------------------

A grey throw for the bed is easy to pair with almost any coloured bed linen, so if you’re looking for a bedspread or quilt as an additional layer for the cooler months – or simply something to throw over the bed during the day – this shade is a safe (but über stylish) way to go.

If you have white, black, red, pink or green bed linen, then any type of grey will work. If you have dark blue or navy bedding, a lighter shade bedspread works particularly well. For mustard and orange, choose a dark grey quilt for a particularly dramatic look, and to help keep the space looking calm. After all, you bedroom is the place where you go to relax and unwind, so an extra cuddling apparatus in a restful shade never goes astray!

In the cooler months when you switch over to flannel bed linen, you can be sure that this colour accessory will still look the part.

Grey throws for the living room
-------------------------------

For the same reason that grey throws are dreamy interior accessories for the bedroom (because the colour goes with everything), they’re also just the thing your inner interior designer is calling for in the living room. Drape a grey throw over a bright or bold-coloured sofa to tone down the look, and make your lounge time a little cosier.

If you have an array of coloured or patterned cushions and can’t decide which colour throw is best to use to tie them all together, a grey sofa blanket provides the perfect accompaniment, acting like a base palette and letting each of the colours stand out.

Even though grey is a neutral colour, many shades – particularly those with pink and yellow undertones – are warm, so it’s easy to create a warm and welcoming neutral environment without having to use creams and beige.

Practical and easy to clean, a grey throw is perfect for families with kids
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Grey blankets are a good option for families looking for accessories in neutral colour schemes because they are calm and complementary, like white or cream, but have the added advantage of concealing dirt and grime. Grey throws make wonderful kids' blankets for this reason, and provide a little bit of cleaning respite (or at least reduce the stress when grubby little fingers are making their way around the living room!). For something extra kid friendly, a wool blanket is at the top of the list because it’s machine washable, soft, and incredibly durable; perfect for the living room accessory that gets a daily workout.

Buy grey throws online in the UK
--------------------------------

At URBANARA, high-quality blankets are a part of our identity: from the very beginning, we searched the world for expert weavers to produce exceptionally high-quality blankets & throws, all made of 100% natural materials, and without the sky-high price tag. From day one, we have endeavoured to source a range of throws and living room textiles in different shades, including grey throws in dozens of designs, finishes, and fibres.

No matter what your décor, we are proud to offer the highest quality throws available, and are confident that you’ll love our collections just as much as we do. To prove it, we offer free returns on every single order for 100 days. That means, if for any reason you’re not in love with your new purchase, you can send it back for free, no questions asked. This is on top of our free delivery service, which we offer on all orders over £50 within the mainland UK. So when you shop for grey throws online with URBANARA, you can be sure that you’re investing in an affordable piece that will pass the test of time.

The only thing you need to do is to decide on which style and material you like best…

Grey throws in all types of materials
-------------------------------------

Depending on the material, this accessory can be extremely soft, warm and sumptuously cosy. The great news too is that grey dye takes to all fabrics particularly well, so whether cotton, wool, alpaca, cashmere or mohair (or yak, or merino wool, and the list goes on), you will always be able to find one in a shade of grey you love.

What’s more, many wool, cashmere and alpaca wool varieties are actually naturally grey, coming from animals with grey coats. For a particularly natural piece, why not opt for a grey blanket that’s made of natural, undyed Scandinavian wool? Because the hue is found in nature, it can help give your living room a rustic, earthy appeal – and this is especially the case for a rugged fibre like wool.

For a natural sheen, mohair blankets are a prime choice, because the fibre possesses a natural shine that catches the light, giving grey-coloured homewares & accessories an almost metallic looking finish. Robust, soft, and statement-making, mohair is the fabric to go for if you’re ultra-style-conscious and are searching for designer-looking piece that’s practical, too.

100% pure fibre grey throws
---------------------------

There’s a big difference between synthetic and natural fibres which will become apparent the moment they touch your skin, and more and more as time passes. Synthetic materials, including faux fur and fleece throws, don’t breathe, creating a breeding ground for dust mites which can irritate people who suffer from allergies. Moreover, fleece throws and fur throws are static, meaning they actively attract dust. When you’re wrapping up in a synthetic throw, you’re cocooning yourself into a fibre that doesn’t allow air to circulate, and so causing you to sweat.

100% natural fibres, on the other hand, are hypoallergenic, meaning they won’t cause irritation, and naturally breathable, so will help you achieve the perfect temperature for your body. Fibres like wool, cashmere, alpaca lambswool help keep you cool in summer and warm in winter – so if you’re looking for a versatile living room accessory you can use all year round (and one which matches all your other furniture), a grey throw made from natural fibres is just the thing.

In addition, natural fibres are much more robust and durable than fleece and faux fur. Some fabrics, like cotton and wool, can also be washed in the washing machine and won’t stretch or pill. So you’ll love them for years and years to come.

Grey throws as gifts
--------------------

If you’re looking for quality gifts, a grey throw ticks all the boxes. For newlyweds, a house warming gift, or for special events like birthdays and Christmas, a high-quality throw & blanket in grey is both stylish and practical. And because grey goes with every colour (at least, if there’s a colour that grey doesn’t complement, we haven’t encountered it!), it’s sure to suit their home.

If you’re looking for an extra special gift, you might consider a luxury blanket, like one made of cashmere. In addition, URBANARA offers monogramming and personalisation services for all home textiles. Embroider initials, special dates, or a personal message on any of our throws to make it truly theirs. For more information on our embroidery and personalisation service, simply call our friendly customer service team for free on 0800 77 97 527 for more information. Alternatively, visit the Product Personalisation page and leave us a message about which product you’d like to personalise, and what you would like to say. We’ll get back to you with a quote as soon as possible.

 
