Autumn/Winter Collection 2015
=============================

Sumptuous autumn blankets
-------------------------

Blankets are an autumn staple, and an incredibly easy way to create a cosy atmosphere during the cooler months. To give your home an easy, autumn-ready update, use blankets in warm, nature-inspired hues made of natural fibres and soft materials. High-quality woollen designs in rich, autumnal tones are ideal for both the sofa and for the outdoors, thanks to their sturdy construction. Alpaca wool blankets are also a friend of the autumn and winter seasons thanks to their soft, heat-retaining finish. Choose from chunky-knit weaves to add texture, or fine jacquard weaves for a timeless look. For truly luxurious comfort in cold weather, look no further than cashmere blankets: sumptuously soft, choose between timeless colours like cream, white, brown or blue, or more statement hues like pinks, reds and greens. Rare and beautiful, a cashmere blanket is an autumn staple you’ll reach for time and time again.

Autumn living accessories
-------------------------

Throw cushions and plush, textural rugs are perfect for autumn and winter because they add a both a visual and physical softness to a space, helping you feel warm and comfortable. For a simple transformation of your living room (or bedroom), lay a chunky weave wool rug to keep your feet warm and help retain heat in the room. Whether you opt for a lighter colour like pale blue, cream or white, or richer tones like brown, dark grey and red, switching over to a thick pile rug in autumn will help make your home a cold-weather retreat. For comfort while you’re lounging, woven cushions are an excellent way to prep your home for the season. Cushion covers made from naturally warm materials like wool, alpaca and cashmere are the perfect finish to the sofa; try matching blankets and cushions to complete the look.

Warm autumn/winter bedding
--------------------------

On chilly autumn nights (and even more so in winter), flannel bedding keeps you warm and cosy – no matter how low the temperature drops. Whether you opt for a flannel fitted sheet and sheets, or complete your set with flannelette duvet covers and pillowcases, this wonderfully soft cotton weave is sure to change your opinion of the cold. Made from brushed cotton that gives the fabric a downy finish, flannelette bed linen comes in a variety of colours and designs. White, grey, and blue flannel bed linen are perfect for both contemporary and traditional spaces, or add a touch of visual warmth by selecting warm, autumn-inspired hues like marsala, brown and dark green. Once you’ve selected your flannel bedding set, finish your autumn bed with a luscious bedspread or quilt for that extra layer on cold nights. Made from high-quality, natural materials and available in a range of designs, an autumn bedspread works hard for both your décor and your bed. For a style statement, go for a bold, geometric pattern or a colourful plaid design. For a more traditional look, cotton and woollen bedspreads in block shades with flanges and delicately woven patterns work a treat.

Set an autumn-inspired table
----------------------------

Autumn and winter is the time of hibernation, when we retreat to our homes and spend long nights indoors with friends and loved ones. Sharing hearty winter and autumn meals around the dinner table is extra special with kitchen and tableware that matches the occasion: from tablecloths, placemats and napkins to serving boards and bowls, use high-quality kitchen accessories to make your time around the table special. Set a table fit for the season with wooden and brass accessories, or add warmth to a classic white table setting with quality table linen in rich hues.

Autumn-updates for your home
----------------------------

These small changes can help transform your home in time for autumn and the cold days ahead. Besides blankets, cushions and rugs in naturally warming fibres set the scene by adding a little more light to your home with elegant lighting fixtures, pendant lamps, and table lamps. Use floor lamps in strategic corners to create ambient light, and create soft pools of light at the coffee table or beside your bed with table lamps. Brass and copper finishes, as well as natural wood designs, are ideal for autumn because they give a pop of warmth whether they’re on or off. Low-hanging pendant lamps are ideal for the dinner table, especially during autumn and winter when the nights are long. Whatever your lighting solution, candles always have a place in the home: invest in gorgeous candelabras or statement candle holders for the table, mantelpiece or the coffee table. Group candles together to create a lighting feature, or dot them around the room to achieve an inviting atmosphere. For the living room and bathroom especially, choose scented candles in wintery scents like cinnamon, orange, and vanilla, and bring the best of autumn and winter into your home.
