Bath Towels
===========

Styling with towels
-------------------

Bathroom towels are above all practical items – but that doesn’t mean that they can’t still be stylish.

This is especially true if you store your towels on open shelves, but also true if not, since they’re always visible when you hang them.

Simply matching your towels with your décor makes your bathroom look stylish and complete… with minimal cost and effort.

When selecting your towel sets, first think about the colour of your bathroom.

What’s your palette? If your bathroom needs a bit of a style kick, inject energy with bright, complementary colours like red, black, or a white and navy stripe.

If you’re looking for a more regal atmosphere, creams, marsala, and forest greens are rich and sumptuous, and will give your bathroom a sophisticated edge.

To keep things neutral and pared down, opt for greys and light browns – but of course always consider the colours of your walls and tiles before buying your bath towels.

Remember to consider the style of your room, too: is it modern, classic, rustic, eclectic? Do you have antique or sleek fixtures? You can then decide which style of towels suits best: for traditional bathrooms, a classic terry weave design looks full and homely.

In a rustic or modern bathroom, try breaking the cotton towel default and opt for linen.

With its smooth yet textural appearance, linen towels would look right at home in either.

Embellishments, like decorative borders or subtle patterns like stripes can also help to add interest.

When choosing decorative bath towels, however, make sure to buy them in a set: if ‘eclectic’ is not the look you’re going for, mismatched designs can look especially unkempt and disorderly.

Once you find your perfect bathroom linens, make them work for your décor even when you’re not using them: rather than storing towels and washcloths away, keep a couple neatly folded on a side table or stool.

If you’re short on space, you can also try a towel ladder – which are extremely fashionable right now.

Whether side table or towel latter, you’ll not only always have a spare towel on hand, but you’ll also help complete your bathroom’s look.

Towels as gifts
---------------

High-quality towels also make practical and thoughtful gifts, no matter what the person’s interest.

If you’re not sure what colour or style they’ll like, opt for a classic white, off-white, or cream design: most people’s bathroom enamel is white, so they’ll be sure to match.

For something slightly more unique and a little less common, extra-large designs, like bath sheets, are ideal.

They are wonderfully luxurious and can turn any pampering session into something special; bath sheets are perfect to add to a pampering pack for the spa or sauna, for example, because they are very generously sized, measuring 100 x 150 cm, and big enough to wrap up in.

(For comparison, a standard bath towel usually measures 70 x 140 cm).

To make your gift truly personal, choose a classic design and have them monogrammed or custom embroidered.

Send wishes, customise with their initials, or have a special date stitched in for a quality gift that goes the extra mile.

Choosing quality bath towels – why natural fibres matter
--------------------------------------------------------

At URBANARA, we only ever develop towel collections made from the highest quality, natural materials.

When we source our fabrics and products, we also make sure that all towel sets – from bath towels and bath mats to flannels and washcloths – are made with care using the finest production techniques.

This often means a combination of the traditional production methods for cultivating and procuring the natural fibre, with modern manufacturing techniques that ensure the product is durable and finished to an excellent standard – every single time.

There are a few reasons why natural fibres are imperative for bath towels.

First, materials like cotton and linen are naturally absorbent, and will wick moisture from your skin to dry you quickly and comfortably.

Synthetic materials are essentially reconstructed plastic, meaning that they’re not at all absorbent, and will simply spread the moisture over your skin.

In addition, cotton and linen towels can hold a significant amount of water compared to their weight, so the towel will actually feel drier while absorbing more water.

In addition, cotton and linen are relatively quick-drying.

Even thick, plush terry towels, will dry quickly enough in a well circulated bathroom without acquiring the dreaded damp towel smell – exactly what you want to avoid after bathing.

Third, natural fibres are more durable than their synthetic counterparts.

With the proper care, bath towels made from natural materials won’t become threadbare, and will withstand far more washing cycles than unnatural fibres.

Finally, synthetic fibres actively attract dust and provide a better breeding ground for mites and bacteria.

Quick-drying and naturally anti-allergenic cotton and linen, however, are antistatic, so won’t attract dust and fluff.

This means that they will stay fresher for longer, helping your bathroom feel clean.

Thick towels vs thin towels
---------------------------

When searching for the perfect bath towel set, it’s worth considering their weight – otherwise known as ‘fabric density’.

The rule of thumb is that thicker the fabric, the more water the towel will be able to absorb, but the longer it will need to completely dry.

It is a common misconception that ‘fabric density’ is a measure of the quality of the towel, but this is not the case.

It refers simply to the thickness or weight, and providing that thin, plain woven towels (like hammam towels) are made from quality material, they’re sure to be long-lasting and durable.

Seasonal towel sets – what fabric density towels should you buy?
----------------------------------------------------------------

While they are still suitable for the summer, heavy, plush towels are a welcoming treat in the wintertime, and are beautiful to wrap up in on cooler days.

Linen towels, on the other hand, are extremely light and airy, and so lovely for the hot summer months.

In the same way you would change your bedroom linen, considering swapping over your bath towels with the season for an opulent bathroom experience! Good-quality towels are a small gesture, but can really help guests feel welcome and at home.

Remember that people generally need more than one towel, so before you invite your next guest over, invest in towel bales – a bath towel, hand towel and a face towel set – so they’re sure to have all they need.

The advantage of towel bales is that they’re matching, so you’ll never have a problem keeping them together, and they’ll look great posed at the end of the bed, too!
