Bedspread sets
==============

Give your bedroom an instant update with bedspread sets
-------------------------------------------------------

'If you’re looking for an easy way to up the style factor of your bedroom, the bed is a great place to start. No matter what your existing décor, a well-dressed bed is an impactful statement-maker. And the same rules apply in the home as they do for fashion: the bedclothes always look better when they’re matching. If you’re looking to give your bedroom a bit of extra cosiness, select a textural finish or chunky weave design. For a modern, sleek revamp, opt for something classic with a smooth finish. Matching bedspreads are also an excellent way to experiment with colour and pattern. To make a bold, bright statement, why not go for something a little more daring? A strong geometric pattern bedspread set, for example, will draw attention and can be a great basis for introducing other patterns and colours into the room. A complementary bed will likewise draw attention, without having to be contrasting; a charcoal or dark brown bedspread set will stand out in a light coloured room, while bedrooms with darker palettes can be given a lift with a light grey or cream style (or any light shade that you prefer). Because they are made to match, quilt and cushion sets can be the finishing touch to your guest bedroom, too. A matching set on the bed, plus a matching towel set laid out at the bed’s foot is sure to make your guests feel welcome and at home. Even if you have a fold-out couch, the room will certainly look the part. For spare rooms on the smaller side, the bedspread has the advantage of keeping the bed clean during the day, allowing your guests to use it to sit and relax on when there isn’t space for a chair or sofa. Pile on the matching cushions and you’ve created a comfortable, stylish day bed – and a wonderful way to say ‘welcome’!

Bedspreads and matching cushions: which material to choose?
-----------------------------------------------------------

Because the sets will give you a complete, ‘prêt-a-dormir’ look, you can swap them over in winter and summer to give you a quick seasonal update, and to give yourself a wonderful sleep. For the colder months, a heavier, thicker material will serve as an extra layer on chilly nights, while the matching cushions will make your bed a cosy haven for weekend lie-ins. For a warm bed in winter, choose bedspread sets made of wool and alpaca, or with a quilted finish to provide extra insulation. In summertime, your quilt set will add that extra bit of weight to your bedclothes when the UK ‘summer’ doesn’t quite live up to its name – rather than a woollen quilt, select a cotton design: with a range of different weaves, styles, finishes, textures and colours available, cotton bedspreads and cushions of today are sophisticated, stylish, and incredibly versatile. Whatever material you choose, though, it really pays to ensure that your set is made from 100% natural fibres. Materials like wool, cashmere cotton and linen are breathable and heat-regulating, so they will help you keep cool or warm as the temperature requires. In addition, natural fibres don’t attract dust like synthetic ones, so can actually promote deep sleep. And aside from this, the feeling of wrapping yourself up in a pure wool quilt and sinking into silky, lustrous cushions will transform your bedtime. Buying quilt sets online is easy and convenient, once you’ve worked out what kind of material is best for you.

Quilted bedspreads and cushions
-------------------------------

A quilted bedspread and cushion set is usually made with a cotton or linen exterior, and filled with a wool blend or cotton wadding. The quilted style sets will give you a slightly more traditional look, suitable for classic décors. A quilted finish is also practical for both warm and cold weather: because it’s a little thicker, it works well with just a sheet in the transitional seasons, while providing extra warmth in the colder seasons when you need another layer.

Bedspread sizes
---------------

To ensure you get the look you want for your bed, the final thing you should consider when purchasing your bedspread set is the size. There are two measurement to consider here – first is the amount that your quilt overhangs on the sides of the bed, and the second is the amount of fabric that overhangs at the foot: selecting the quilt based on your mattress size will determine how much drape you have. Bedspreads generally come in three sizes: single (180 x 230 cm); double (240 x 265 cm); and king-size (275 x 265 cm). For a single size mattress (90 x 200 cm), a single quilt will give you a 45 cm (sides) and 30 cm (foot) overhang, a double quilt will give you a 75 cm (sides) and 65 cm (foot) overhang, and a king-size quilt will give you a 92.5 cm 65 cm (foot) overhang. For a double mattress (140 x 200), a single quilt will give you a 20 cm (sides) and 30 cm (foot) overhang, a double quilt will give you a 50 cm (sides) and 65 cm (foot) overhang, and a king-size quilt will give you a 67.5 cm (sides) and 65 cm (foot) overhang. For a King-size mattress (180 x 200), a single quilt will give you a 10 cm (sides) and 30 cm (foot) overhang, a double quilt will give you a 40 cm (sides) and 65 cm (foot) overhang, and a king-size quilt will give you a 47.5 cm (sides) and 65 cm (foot) overhang.

Buying matching sets online
---------------------------

Matching quilt sets come in a variety of colours and styles, so you’re sure to find one you love online. If you’ve got a bedspread that you love and which you aren’t ready to replace, you can also opt for a matching throw and cushion set to achieve the same look. Pretty and versatile, they can also be used in the living room if you one day decide to change your bedroom’s décor.
