## Cushion covers

## The endless possibilities with cushion covers

Cushion covers come in all shapes, sizes, materials, colours, textures and with different embellishments: indeed, there are few homewares that are as versatile as this humble homeware accessory! Thanks to this, Not only practical (for those night spent curled up on the sofa, or the days you spend leisurely reading in bed), cushion covers have the power to completely transform a room. With a little thought and creativity, a few cushion covers will turn your sofa into a statement, your bed into the spotlight of the room, and your floor into the place where you actually want to sit… But before you buy yours, here’s a quick materials and styling guide to help you pick the perfect ones for your home.

## Cotton Cushion Covers

The advantage of cotton cushion covers is that they’re suitable for use all year round. While wool covers can feel a little warm in the summertime, cotton designs are comfortable to lean against or lie on when it’s hot, but also offer comfort when it’s cold – whether they add warmth or not. Cotton can also be woven into a smooth, flat fabric too, making it ideal for printing patterns and designs. With screen printing, for example, there is no limit to the designs possible: fine, geometric print cushion covers, floral patterns, tribal prints, or bright, metallic detailing can all be applied. Depending on the weave, cotton cushion covers can also have patterns and designs woven into them. A jacquard weave in particular can create herringbone or textured finishes, which provide a more subtle look than rotary or screen printed designs. Keep in mind that as cotton created relatively fine threads, a heavily textured collection (that is, one that has the pattern woven into the design) will be a little stiffer and heavier than normal, since it requires more fabric to create the effect. This of course also means that it will be very durable.

## Ikat cushion covers

Are an extremely popular interior styling choice because they are each unique and add a special statement to an interior. The patterns typically seen in traditional ikat cushions are created by dying the threads before they are woven. This technique, which is practiced in several cultures around the world including regional peoples in Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia and ancient Persia, creates a design that looks slightly ‘imperfect’, since the colours appear to bleed into one another subtly for soft, blurred edges. Ikat cushion are usually bright and colourful – by definition they need at least two colours in them – and they will more often than not be contrasting hues, rather than several hues of the same colour. This weaving technique requires a vast amount of skill and precision, since all threads need to be dyed evenly in order to produce a uniform design. In the home, Ikat cushions are a beautiful decorating accessory because each one is unique and make for a small yet impactful accent: a few handmade cushion covers will completely transform a tired sofa or bedroom!

## Linen cushion covers

Linen is an excellent fibre to use around the home: it’s antistatic, so won’t attract dust, hypoallergenic, so is great for allergy sufferers, is extremely durable, becoming softer with each wash, and is absurdly easy to care for – simply pop it in the washing machine. Linen scatter cushions and other home accessories are particularly suitable for warmer months because the fibre is breathable, absorbent and heat-regulating, feeling very cool against the skin. Linen has a lovely earthy texture though, so when paired with cushion covers made of wool or cashmere, for example, provide wonderful textural diversity; consider pairing cushions made from different materials for a visually (and tactilely!) appealing room.

## Wool and alpaca cushion covers

It’s not the first fabric that comes to mind for a cushion cover, but wool and alpaca made stunning cushion covers that really up your winter décor! Warm, soft, and 100% natural fibre, Urbanara’s wool cushion covers are extremely high-quality and will add an instant element of warm, inviting texture to your home. Wool can be woven into fine, smooth materials using a plain or jacquard weave In addition, because wool fibres are thicker than cotton or linen fibres, woven patterns using two or more different coloured threads are more common in woollen collections: a classic herringbone or chevron pattern is can easily be achieved with a jacquard wool weave, and look simply stunning on the sofa next to a throw or blanket. Wool cushion covers can also be woven using a thick, chunky weave for a really textured, tactile finish. Although a large, chunky knit cushion cover might seem more of a winter accent, don’t dismiss them in your summer and spring living and bedroom: in cool, pastel shades, a chunky weave often displays a casual look that fits perfectly with lazy, hot days.

## Mohair cushion covers

Fuzzy, lustrous, and incredibly warm, a mohair cushion cover will make your sofa or bed winter-proof. Mohair takes very well to dye, too, so mohair accents are often available in bright, complementary colours: perfect for cushion covers and small decorative pieces. Because they are such a statement, matching mohair cushions and blankets are a fab choice for living room styling – even in different hues, their texture makes it clear that they go together, so you can be playful with your palette and give your space a happy pop of colour.

## Cashmere cushion covers

If you want to inject a bit of everyday luxury into your room but don’t want to go as far as a velvet sofa, cashmere accessories are the perfect way to do it. Sumptuously soft and silky, cashmere fibres are woven from cashmere goats, which are native to Mongolia, and which are adapted to bitter cold winters. Cushion covers made from this downy, velvety fibre will be the ones that you reach for time and time again thanks to the comfort and warmth that only cashmere can provide. For affordable everyday luxury, cashmere cushion covers really are the way to go.

## Embroidered covers

Embroidery is not as prevalent as it once was, but it’s perfect for creating a feminine, delicate look. If there is anywhere to introduce this style into the home, cushions are a great place to start. Embroidery is often very intricate and detailed, so consider designs that use the same colour stitching as the base fabric for a more subtle look.

## Styling with scatter cushions

Scatter cushions work both in the living room and the bedroom and are a seriously affordable update that really packs a style punch. If your home is looking a little tired or you’re getting a little bored of your colour scheme, swap over a few of your scatter cushion covers and give your room a new lease on life. If you’re starting at the beginning, there are a few rules of thumb to follow, or tips that will help you decide which styles you should choose. First, it’s good to remember that square cushion covers are incredibly easy to style: whether you’re choosing the same sizes or a combination of small and large ones, layer or pile cushions on a bed in any way you choose for a feature in your room. The only thing to remember is, unless you’re using plain cushion covers, you should aim for a balance of patterns and hues, and try to achieve a sense of symmetry: three red cushion covers followed by three cream or grey cushion covers isn’t restful on the eye – mix them up and alternate the colours instead. If you’re looking to experiment a little with the décor in your home, this humble accessory can help you get a feel for the pallets and patters you really love, before committing to larger pieces (like [blankets](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/blankets-throws), [bedspreads](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/bedspreads-quilts), [curtains](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/curtains) or [rugs](https://www.urbanara.co.uk/rugs-runners)). For example, a simple cushion cover in a geometric print is an excellent candidate for pattern blocking: pair geometric, woven or tribal designs on the sofa for a serious interior statement. Mix complementary colours for an eye-catching arrangement, and play with sizes too: cushion covers are available in many sizes, most commonly in 40 x 40 cm, 45 x 45 cm, or 50 x 50 cm. Rectangular ones are popular as well: a 40 x 60 cm cushion cover will pair really well with a square one around the same size. When buying several at once, think about how size and colour will work together. Perhaps buy plain square covers and use the rectangular ones are bold pattern accents? The possibilities and endless, and the beauty of these accessories is that they can literally look different in every room, depending on how they are styled, how many there are, and which other patterns they’re married with.

## Buy cushion covers online

If you’re looking for a replacement cushion cover, it’s incredibly easy to find what you need online. The only thing you need to know is the size of the insert. Once this is measured, simply browse through dozens of collections by style, material, colour or price. Urbanara offers a huge selection of cushion covers, available to purchase with or without the insert, so no matter whether you’re looking to change your décor or you need a few more to put the finishing touches on your living room or bedroom, we’ve got a range of styles to suit all tastes. When buying them online, so keep your other furnishings in mind: it’s incredibly easy to achieve a five-star look at home simply by matching cushions with curtains or blankets and throws! Certainly, if you’re looking for matching cushions and curtains, consider buying a second pair of curtain panels and have the cushions covers made especially. Since all Urbanara curtains are sold as individual panels, it’s very easy to get a matching look; for information on our customisation for cushion covers in the UK, call our customer service for free on 0800 77 97 527 (from Mainland UK) and speak to us personally.

## Cushion covers in the UK

All our collections are available to buy in the UK, and for all orders over £50, delivery is free too. If you happen to purchase a cushion cover that isn’t quite what you were expecting, we also offer 100 days free returns – so there’s no reason to have reservations about your purchase. Besides, if you want to keep your décor versatile, investing in cushion covers is a wonderfully affordable solution. By buying several covers in different patterns and colours, you can replace and mix and match the styles as you please. In summertime, for example, you can bring out the striped cushion covers (stripes are quintessentially summery!) and use cooler, fresher or fruitier palettes. In wintertime and when the weather gets a little cooler, pull out the woollen, knitted, and warm-coloured covers for an instant cold-weather update! Before replacing one cover with another, consider giving your cushion insert a little love and having them dry cleaned to keep them fresh and free from mites. Wash your covers too before storing them: this will keep them in top condition and ready to use when you’re ready to swap back. Even though they are small living room accents, good-quality cushion covers will really make your home look and feel expensive – and you won’t have to be scared of actually using and enjoying them. While they are versatile and not as big a décor commitment than say, a sofa – it pays to invest in cushion covers that will still look beautiful after heavy use, so you won’t have to replace them each season (which is the case with many models that are mass produced and made from synthetic materials). All Urbanara’s cushion covers are made using only the finest natural materials and produced by the best makers we could find. Because of this, and despite the wear and love that cushion covers sustain on a daily basis, all our collections are made to last, and will look as gorgeous as the day you bought them… even after many seasons. Urbanara’s cushion covers are always finished with high-quality buttons or a zipper, too, so you can remove the insert, allowing them to be cleaned on a regular basis. Just remember that different fibres have different care requirements, so be sure to check the washing guide before you pop it in the washing machine; and remember to remove the cushion insert before any cleaning takes place, too!
