 

Cotton rugs
-----------

Rugs are stylish and practical additions to any room, providing both comfort underfoot and an extra layer of flair and interest to your décor. Available in an incredibly diverse range of colours, styles, sizes and patterns, a cotton rug might be just thing to give your room a lift or to complete your room’s look. With URBANARA’s extensive range of high-quality, affordable cotton rugs, you’re certain to find the perfect floor covering for your home.

And because all orders over £50 are free to the mainland UK, you can shop confidently and conveniently from the comfort of your home.

Why choose a cotton rug?
------------------------

Cotton has been used to make rugs and tapestries for centuries. Cotton fibres, which are a natural, renewable resource, are soft, pliable, and perfect for making these floor textiles and accessories; but there are several reasons that make cotton – whether as an area rug, a carpet runner or an accent rug – an excellent choice for your floor covering.

Their smooth surface makes them absolutely ideal for use as kids’ rugs, and the fact that they’re easy to clean just makes them all the more perfect.

### Cotton rugs are smoother than wool

There are many benefits to 100% cotton rugs and runners. First, they are soft and smooth underfoot. While they’re not quite as plush or thick as wool or jute rugs can be, they are great for those who find wool to be scratchy or irritating or who have allergies to lanolin.

Their smooth surface makes them absolutely ideal for use as kids’ rugs, and the fact that they’re easy to clean just makes them all the more perfect.

### A cotton rug is comfortable all year round

Secondly, cotton is a versatile fabric that’s suitable for use all year round. While some may find that wool rugs are too warm for the summertime (especially ones that are tufted), cotton doesn’t trap as much heat as 100% sheep’s wool so won’t perform as an insulator in the same way. While many people will opt to store their thick and plush wool rugs over the summer, you may therefore find that a cotton design is perfect all year round. However, if you do want to keep your floors bare in the summer, cotton is pliable so easy to store (we’ll get to this in a moment!) so you can have truly versatile and seasonal décor.

### 100% cotton rugs are fresher and healthier for your home

Cotton won’t give you carpet burn like synthetic or polyester rugs will, either, and are much more comfortable to walk and sit on. Cotton is also breathable and won’t attract dust or harbour mites, so is much better for people who suffer from allergies: your home will feel significantly fresher and cleaner once you replace a synthetic rug with one made from natural materials.

### Benefits of 100% natural rugs

Additionally, natural fibres won’t trap odours, while synthetic ones will, which is important to avoid for rugs because they typically take up a lot of floor space.

Non-natural materials are static, too, so will attract dust. Because they don’t breathe, they can also become a breeding ground for mites, both of which can irritate individuals with allergies or respiratory problems like asthma.

As you can see, there are several compelling reasons to invest in a 100% natural rug or runner, or swap to one if you haven’t already. Your home will be healthier and safer if you do.

### Cotton rugs come in all sizes, colours and designs

Finally, cotton is an easily treatable fibre that takes extremely well to dyes and can be easily hand-woven or loomed into myriad different patterns and designs. Herringbone woven rugs, twill weave rugs, and plain weave rugs with bold geometric patterns and lots of different colours are perfectly achieved with cotton. Because cotton yarns are thin (though durable), multi-coloured cotton rugs are easy to find too. Often, multi-coloured rugs will be blended with a black, white or grey base colour so it’s not too overwhelming or loud, making it easier to blend in with your décor.

### A cotton rug is very easy to clean and care for

100% cotton rugs are incredibly easy to care for – and some can even be placed in the washing machine! To keep your rug looking beautiful and in excellent condition, vacuum it regularly and simply spot clean it with a carpet cleaner (we’d recommend one that’s made of natural ingredients, which promotes a healthy home). If your cotton rug is looking a little grimy (which can happen quickly especially if you use yours as kitchen rugs or in the dining room), then treat the stains with a natural stain remover and pop it in the washing machine on a gentle cycle. Voilà: good as new!

### Cotton rugs are smooth and pliable

Cotton rugs are slightly thinner and more pliable than wool rugs. Because of this, cotton designs can often be folded, making for easy storage. Why would you need to store your rug, you ask? Being able to fold a rug away in your cupboard without having to find a place tall or long enough for one that’s rolled up really comes in handy in the warmer months if you want to remove your floor coverings for a cooler, fresher feeling underfoot.

### What else do I need to know before buying a cotton rug?

Because cotton fibres do not have the same width or density as other fabrics, cotton is not as successfully hand-knotted or tufted, meaning that chunky, exaggerated textures cannot be achieved. For a very textural rug design, opt for something in wool or jute instead.

What size cotton rug should you buy?
------------------------------------

The majority of rugs available to buy from URBANARA UK are available in different sizes, as well as many that are also available in runner size. Before you decide on the style of rug you’d like in your home, you should determine what size you need.

For small rooms, an extra-large cotton rug – usually measuring 200 cm x 300 cm – may even be big enough to use as an area rug.

If you plan to use it in the living room for in front of the sofa, or in the bedroom beside the bed, make sure you know the measurements of those large furniture pieces. Ideally, it should be long or wide enough to sit under the feet of the sofa or bed, and still have a little on either side. This will help the furniture look more settled and positioned.

Cotton rugs for the bedroom – size guide
----------------------------------------

If you are selecting a rug for a single bed which measure 90 cm x 190 cm, your rug should be longer than 90 cm if it’s for the foot, or at least around 200 cm long if it’s for the side.

A 140 cm x 240 cm cotton rug will work with a double bed (which usually measures around 150 cm x 200 cm) if you place it perpendicular to the bed, and around 60 cm under the foot of the bed: in this case you won’t need to get a really big design, and it makes under-the-bed storage that bit easier to access, which is always good!

If you want something for the side of the bed (double, queen and king sized ones are around 200 cm long, you might find that a long, 100% cotton carpet runner, measuring 80 x 250 cm, is just want you need. Place one on each side for a symmetrical look, which is key to achieving a balanced and attractive interior décor.

Buy cotton rugs online from URBANARA & get free delivery on orders £50+
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

At URBANARA, we believe that everyone has a right to enjoy quality, so we work hard to ensure that we keep our costs as low as possible, then pass the savings onto you. To allow you to shop confidently and comfortable from your home, we offer free delivery on all orders over £50 to the mainland UK, no matter how large the item… including rugs!

What’s more, we want all of our products to be united with their ideal home match. That’s why, if you’re not 100% convinced about your order or if it doesn’t look quite how you imagined it would in your home, you can send it back from free within 100 days – no questions or annoying terms & conditions. It’s uncomplicated online shopping: just the way it should be.

URBANARA’s cotton rugs are 100% natural and use the best quality materials
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aside from making it easy to browse and shop for cotton rugs online, every single one of our rugs are independently or fair trade certified, ensuring that they have been woven without the use of child labour. What’s more, all the weavers who make our rugs are fairly compensated and work in safe environments. The craftsmen and women who create our collections are passionate about what they do, and so invest time and care into each piece. For us, it’s important to know that all cotton hand woven designs are made in the same conditions we expect for ourselves.

In fact, many of our collections are fair trade, OEKO-TEX 100 or Care & Fair certified, or checked by another independent body ensuring it’s been made in good conditions with high-quality materials, and without harm to the environment. We do this because we expect it for the home accessories we put in our own homes, and feel that it’s only right to provide you with the same standard.

How to style your cotton rug: some decorating tips
--------------------------------------------------

Available in all colours and styles, a cotton rug can make a fantastic addition to any room in the home! Very durable and hard-wearing, it can be placed in the high-traffic areas in your home like the kitchen or hallway (like a carpet runner, for example), but also in the bedroom or living room to add a little softness and to help unify other accessories in the room.

Start with a cotton rug and work up
-----------------------------------

If you’re decorating an entire room afresh, a colourful or patterned cotton rug is a brilliant way to anchor your style and set the theme and colour palette for your room. By starting with the rug, you can then move up through your space, focusing on each element individually.

For example, if you are using a geometric rug in the living room that features bright colours or an interesting patters, you could replicate this pattern in the form of scatter cushions or a wool blanket draped over the sofa. If the rug design is bold enough to stand alone, pick a complementary hue, or something in a neutral that compliments the shade.

You can replicate the texture, too. A herringbone cotton rug in the bedroom would look fantastic with herringbone or chevron cotton blankets and throws, or a bedspread that used a similar weave.

### Using a geometric cotton rug to unify a space

If you’re just looking to give your home a lift, a new floor covering is a good opportunity to highlight the other accessories or textiles in your home. For example, if you have particularly textural curtains or blankets & throws with a geometric design, choosing a rug with a similar or complimenting design will help those other homewares to pop. Similarly, a red cushions, a modern piece of artwork, or a statement 1950s reading lamp can all be made more of a feature if your rug complements its style.

### Extra large cotton rugs

If you need a cotton rug that's a little bit bigger than normal or you have a special requirement, you can also buy rugs to order, with customisation available for many of our designs. To find out if the rug you have your eye on is available for customisation, just get in touch with our customer service team and speak with us directly on 0800 77 97 527 between business hours, Monday to Friday. Alternatively, you can also drop us a line via our personalisation page, letting us know your requrements. We'll either get back to you with a free quote or be in touch as soon as possible for more information!

 
