 

Kitchen rugs
------------

Kitchen rugs are a useful and stylish addition to any kitchen, helping to protect your floor and keep it clean while providing an extra stylish element tin the heart of the home. URBANARA wide selection of high-quality yet very affordable kitchen rugs and runners are truly up to the task of withstanding heavy use and wear. Crafted with longevity in mind, our collection of stylish yet affordable rugs are either hand-woven or made using the superior looms and technology for a finish that will last a lifetime.

There are a few reasons to invest in a kitchen rug or carpet runner for the home, but carpets & rugs for the dining room are also fantastic for partitioning and visually separating the space.

What material is suitable for a kitchen rug?
--------------------------------------------

There are a couple of good options for kitchen and dining room rugs. The most important thing to keep in mind is that they have to be extremely hard wearing (the more durable, the better), effective at concealing spots and stains (in the case of spills or other kitchen-related accidents), and last but certainly not least, should be easy to clean.

### 100% wool kitchen rugs

The standout fibre that fulfils all of those requirements is definitely sheep’s wool. Used for rug and tapestry making for centuries, wool is an incredibly hard wearing fibre that has a natural elasticity that give the fibres a resistance to heavy wear and tear.

In addition, pure wool has the advantage of being hydrophobic, which sounds unfriendly and undesirable, but actually if great for the kitchen, because any water or other liquid spills can be soaked up with a paper towel or cotton tea towels before it soaks in. (In fact, it’s the same reason that wool blankets are fantastic as picnic blankets or for wrapping up in when you’re out of doors: you’ll feel warmer and drier than with other fabrics!)

If you don’t quite manage to soak up all the little off of your kitchen rug in time, it doesn’t matter too much, though, because if the liquid is absorbed by the rug, it will dry very quickly and will feel drier than other materials which have absorbed the same amount of liquid. Naturally, you want to avoid this – so ensure that your wool rug doesn’t have a high-pile, which has a larger surface area to absorb spills.

Naturally, as with all natural materials, the performance of a fibre depends on its quality: 100% pure, high-quality wool is much more durable and long lasting, absorbent and stain concealing than poor quality or low grade wool… and consequently, wool rugs made from high-quality fibres will stay beautiful for much, much longer.

At URBANARA, we only use the absolute best-quality fibres and materials that we can find, because we believe that a good value product, that lasts a long time, also makes that product affordable because you only have to buy it once.

### Pure cotton kitchen rugs

Cotton rugs are also a really solid choice for the kitchen because they are often woven in a flat weave (a high pile rug is something you definitely want to avoid in the kitchen and dining room where the risk of spills and crumbs escaping onto the floor are very high!). Because they’re low pile and cotton has very fine yarns that are tightly woven, there’s little room for crumbs, grains or dirt to get stuck in it, and it can be easily dusted off if something is spilled. Cotton is also a very malleable, pliable fabric, and cotton rugs can be folded up. Aside from this, they’re generally much lighter than woollen designs so it’s easier to take it outside and shake it off and dust it out, which can be more effective than vacuuming.

Cotton, when hand-woven or loomed in a plain weave, also has the advantage of often being reversible. While we are very serious about only sourcing products that are exceptionally high-quality and therefore durable, there’s no denying that a reversible rug’s longevity is effectively doubled: simply flip it over from time to time and keep your floor covering extra fresh.

If too you befall a bad spill while cooking with a liquid that stains easily, simply flip the rug over and no one will ever know the difference.

Finally, this particular fabric is as good as wool for kitchen floor coverings because they can often be placed in the washing machine (say hello to your new favourite kids’ rugs!). For big families with children or for those who spend a lot of time in their house & garden cooking and entertaining, a 100% cotton kitchen rug takes the hassle out of the deep clean up the next day.

Styling a kitchen rug
---------------------

Obviously, your kitchen rug or runner needs to match your kitchen or dining room’s style: it goes without saying. But for the kitchen especially, where there are comparatively few other textiles with which to mix and match your rug, there’s a lot more room for being bold with colour and pattern.

Imagine stepping into the kitchen each morning and being greeted with a bright, energetic, colourful (multi-coloured, even) rug on the floor! The image is a particularly nice one, providing of course it doesn’t clash with your wall colours, cabinets, or any other visible decorative accessories in the room.

There is one thing that you should always keep in mind when choosing rugs & runners for this area, though, and that is that spills and slips are more likely to occur here than anywhere else in the house, so you should choose a colour that will conceal stains, rather than stand out on them.

What colour should I choose for a kitchen rug?
----------------------------------------------

You should be prudent when selecting a floor covering for your kitchen or dining room.

Cream carpet runners, for example, can look magnificent in the bedroom or living room, but will quickly look soiled if you place one beside the dining table! Except for cream and off-white, however, there’s a lot of room to move within different colour schemes. If you love the idea of a grey rug, just go for a dark grey rather than a light grey, or, if you absolutely must have shades of light grey in your kitchen (and we’d completely understand if you would!), then perhaps consider a design that is mottled, which will naturally conceal stains much more effectively than a solid block colour design.

If you like bright colours, choose one that is a slightly darker hue than normal, and you’ll save yourself a lot of time in cleaning in the long run (and your kitchen will look cleaner and fresher for longer, which is always positive).

### What else do I need to consider when buying a kitchen rug?

Once you’ve decided on a colour, style and size, there is one last thing to think about when you’re shopping for a new floor covering for the heart of the home: because it’s both a working and wet area, it’s very important to make sure that it’s non slip, so you won’t be slipping and sliding around on your tiles, parquet or floorboards.

If you can’t find a cotton or wool rug that you like with an anti slip rubber backing, you can make any rug or runner non-slip by pairing it with a rug underlay or an anti slip mat.

A rug underlay, which is made of rubber and can be cut to the exact size of your rug, increases the longevity of your piece so is a very sound investment. First, it will help protect your floor and any eventual discolouration. Second, as suggested, it will keep your rug firmly in place be creating friction between your flooring and the material. Third – and one of the seldom spoken benefits – it will provide you with an additional layer of cushioning, making the rug even more comfortable to stand on while you’re working away preparing your feasts.

If you use one in the dining room, the underlay will make sure that your furniture (the table and chair legs) don’t leave imprints in the rug which can look flattened and are difficult to remove over time. Plus, when you’re sitting at the table, the extra layer of cushioning it will provide will make extended luncheons or dinners that little bit more comfortable… so there really is a lot of merit in investing in a high-quality rug underlay!

### Buying a kitchen rug online in the UK

At URBANARA, we do everything we can to make shopping for kitchen rugs and runners as easy and enjoyable as possible. First, you can shop with piece of mind because you know that we only use top-quality materials and excellent, passionate producers and manufacturers with extensive experience to make each and every one of our collections.

Second, when browsing our home accessories and homewares, we ensure that we provide you with as much information as possible to make the right decision for the decorative pieces in your home. From the colour, high-quality photos, extensive descriptions and all size and material details, you can be sure that you won’t find any bad surprises in your box once we deliver you your order.

Third, we want you to be able to shop confidently, and want each and every one of our products to end up in happy homes. That’s why we offer 100 days free returns on all orders. We call it our Love at First Touch Guarantee. This means that if your kitchen rug doesn’t look quite how you imagined it would, you can send it back for free, no questions asked, and with no annoying terms and conditions.

Last but not least, we provide free delivery on all orders over £50 to the Mainland UK, always. Especially for rugs and runners which are difficult to transport and lug home from the high street, we’ll do all the hard work and delivery it to you, at no additional cost. It’s part of our commitment to easy, confident online shopping.

 
