 

Black Friday 2016
-----------------

The special shopping event takes place the day after the American Thanksgiving holiday. It was originally an American observance, but it proved so popular that it now takes place across the world. In 2016, Black Friday falls on 25th November, and Cyber Monday on the 28th November.

What is Black Friday?
---------------------

The mark of the Christmas Shopping season, Black Friday has been observed for decades with special offers on all types of products, from easy gifting to larger items. At URBANARA, take advantage of our Black Friday deals and Cyber Monday offers and get all your Christmas shopping done, for much less than what you’d pay on the high street. Whether you’re looking for gifts for him, her, or the family, or you want to give your home a spruce for the season and stock up on staples for the year ahead, our Black Friday sales give you the chance to shop high-quality items for less.

Cyber Monday Offers
-------------------

In 2016, URBANARA is offering all customers the chance to save on a wide range of bestsellers and our most popular collections. From Friday, 25th November to Monday 28th November, we’ll be holding offers that will make your Christmas gift shopping as organised as ever.

From silky soft cashmere blankets, luxurious alpaca throws and high-quality textiles, you’re sure to find a gift they’ll love.

To prepare your home for guests, shop our high-quality bed linen, gorgeous winter layers, and soft, fluffy Egyptian cotton and organic towels… and if you’re looking to treat yourself for the season, take advantage of the Black Friday and Cyber Monday offers to get something you truly love… with free delivery over £50, and free, 100-day returns.
